An aspiring 23-year-old graduate from Edmonton will be jetting off to China after securing a two-month internship to gain international experience at a finance company.
Amber Sinclair-Alexander has studied a joint honours in French, accounting and finance at Aberystwyth University, in Wales, for two years, and spent her third year in the South of France.
Amber of Felixstowe Road, Edmonton, will fly out to Shanghai next month where she will gain vital experience at an asset management firm.
“This is an amazing opportunity,” she said. “As a joint honours student, it can be tricky to gain equal experience in both subject areas as they are both quite different.”
The Generation UK internship programme is funded through The British Council which provides placements and academic scholarships to UK students in China.
As an intern Amber will attend conferences, phone clients, assist managers with day to day tasks and have the chance to pitch ideas to help build the company.
She will also learn Mandarin which is spoken by over a billion people in China and will be a impressive skill to show prospective employees when she applies to be a chartered accountant.
“It will be a culture shock at first,” explained Amber who will be provided with hotel accommodation during her stay.
She will explore the city’s famous landmarks on day trips with other interns.
Amber spent her third year of university as a teaching assistant in Perpignan, south of France, teaching English to French students and will graduate next week at a special ceremony.
She speaks fluent French which she said will be useful on her placement as it is spoken by colleagues at the firm as well as English.
Amber said she was “shocked” when she found out she had been selected for the internship.
“I was grateful when I found out that there were only six people chosen,” she added.
Professor Jo Crotty, director of the Institute of Business and Law at Aberystwyth University said: “Amber’s feat in securing the Generation UK internship is testimony to the success of this strategy.
“We know that she will make good use of this opportunity and act as worthy ambassador for the department and the university.”
