Ohio sparked an intensely emotional reaction across social media which shows no sign of letting up. Born as Josh Alcorn, the teen signed an online suicide note as Leelah.
Leelah explained that she always felt like a girl and wanted her parents to accept that. They did not, mother Carla Alcorn told CNN, for religious reasons. Though she loved her child, the mother struggled to wrap her mind around what transgender means.
"The only way I will rest in peace is if one day transgender people aren't treated the way I was, they're treated like humans, with valid feelings and human rights," Leelah pleaded in her note. "My death needs to be counted."
There is more information than ever about transgender people -- from new research to a freshly written book of personal essays, "Trans Bodies, Trans Selves" to the critically acclaimed new Amazon series "Transparent."
What is transgender?
Transgender is an umbrella term for people whose gender identity, expression or behavior does not conform to the sex they were assigned at birth, according to American Psychological Association, which recently posted a Q&A on the topic. Sex is different from gender: Sex refers to genitalia, and gender is the cultural construct society has created to differentiate between men and women.
Transgender also gets confused with sexual orientation. Just because someone is transgender doesn't mean they are gay, lesbian or bisexual.
It's also important to know the difference between transgender people and transsexuals. Transsexuals alter or want to change their bodies by using hormones, surgery or other means to come more in line with the gender with which they associate, the association says. Not all transgender people want to change their bodies.
Although it may seem like a relatively new topic, transgender people have been documented since antiquity in many cultures around the world.
A transgender person has told you they are transgender. What's the first thing you should say?
Some experts say you should try this: "I love you and support you."
That first reaction from a friend or family member whose judgment matters is critical, said Aidan Key, the founder of the family education and support organization Gender Diversity in Washington. "Consider that they're facing many other challenges, and you can offer a place where they can simply be accepted, a place without struggle."
Chances are very good it's taken a tremendous amount of courage for your friend or family member to come to you.
Elizabeth Crankshaw, who was born a male but identifies as a woman, said it's also OK to "say you don't understand, because how could you? You'd have to be trans to get it."
Crankshaw grew up in the 1970s when there was no commonly parsed language about being transgender. She was married and came out first to her ex-wife and then to her sister.
"It was terrifying. I had so much anxiety," she recalled. "You have to think of the worst things that could happen. How will my employer will react? Will I lose my job? Will my co-workers treat me differently?"
If a transgender person is renting a home, she added, they could be afraid of backlash from a landlord.
If you feel the urge to ask a transgender person whether they've physically changed their genitalia, think twice.

