Fog has affected travel in southern England with some flights cancelled due to poor visibility at London
            airports.
            London City airport diverted all inbound flights on Saturday while Heathrow and Gatwick also reported
            disruption.
            Passengers were told to expect delays and to contact their airline before travelling to the airport.
            There will be further disruption for travellers over Christmas because of industrial action over pay
            disputes.
            The poor visibility in south-east England caused at least a dozen British Airways flights to be cancelled.
            "In common with other airlines, we are experiencing some disruption to our flights," a BA spokesperson said.
            BA warned that there would be knock-on delays due to disruption at Heathrow. It said to expect delays and a
            "small number" of cancellations, as the airport has restricted landing and take-off.
            On Friday, BA cabin crew based at Heathrow said they would strike on Christmas Day and Boxing Day in a row
            over pay and conditions.
            Christmas 2016 travel: When should I avoid the roads?
            Are we facing a Christmas of Discontent?
            Source: Civil Aviation Authority
            London City airport told passengers that "significant fog in London is continuing to cause flight delays"
            and that it was closing from around midday on Saturday until Sunday.
            The Met Office warned of cloudy weather throughout Saturday evening in London, with areas of mist and fog
            becoming widespread.
            Sunday will "start on a grey and murky note with patchy fog persisting", a statement added.
            Other parts of the country also experienced reduced visibility on Saturday.
            The disruption to flights comes days before a planned 48-hour strike at UK airports called by the Unite
            union over pay and conditions.
            More than 1,500 check-in staff, baggage handlers and cargo crew employed by Swissport will walk out on 23
            December.
            It is unclear exactly how many airports will be affected, but airlines at Edinburgh, Aberdeen airports all
            employ Swissport staff.
            Swissport said it had made numerous offers to Unite since April 2015 to resolve the dispute. It said the
            planned strike was "another in a series of recent examples where a minority of trade union members are
            acting in a cynical fashion".
            The company said it would do "everything within its power to limit any impact of the proposed industrial
            action on the airlines it serves and their passengers".
            Virgin Atlantic pilots have voted to work to rule from 23 December in a row over union recognition.
