In Ontario, someone dies every three days while waiting for an organ transplant. About 220 people are waiting for a new liver and Arch Walsh of Mississauga is one of them.
Walsh had hoped a living donor might come forward, but that prospect dimmed when someone who was a match backed out, after demanding financial compensation.
"I can barely rest," said Walsh, who looks like a shell of the tall, husky man he was — until last December when he got sick.
"My bones rub together when I sleep," he told CBC Toronto.
Walsh has Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH), a condition where fatty deposits inside the liver become inflamed, causing the organ to scar and enlarge. NASH is a more severe form of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and can develop, as with Walsh's case, into cirrhosis. By Stage 4, the damage is irreversible. Walsh's liver is operating at 20 per cent.
A brush with death
Every two weeks Walsh goes to Trillium Health Centre in Mississauga to have a catheter stuck into his distended, water-filled abdomen to drain the fluids. It has to be done carefully, so his bowel and other organs won't be punctured.
"My abdomen just started swelling to the point where it looked like I was nine months pregnant," Walsh said as he described the first time he landed in the emergency room last December.
"The doctors drained 15 litres from my abdomen." It's a routine he'll undergo biweekly until he dies or he gets a new liver.
The husband and father of four has been preparing for death since that day in December.
A brush with extortion
Walsh went through seven months of these painful drainage treatments before being put on the organ donor list. It was a glimmer of hope that quickly dimmed.
"It became readily apparent there were just not enough donors in the deceased donor bank," he said
Walsh's family and friends volunteered to go through the screening process for becoming living donors.
Unfortunately for Walsh, no one was a match for his O Positive blood type. Except one friend, a man Walsh says he knew for years.
"He was the rare and perfect fit," Walsh said.
The donor (Walsh did not want to disclose his name), went through every stage of the program's screening process.
Walsh's surgery was scheduled for Sept. 26, but just days before he was to go under the knife, the donor called him.
The man told Walsh he would need to pay him $200,000 to go through with the operation, Walsh said.
"I indicated to the individual that I'd rather die than be subjected to extortion," he said.
"We went from absolute heaven, seeing a life for myself and a future, to hell with being dead in a matter of days."
Now Walsh is back to square one, waiting in the queue for a liver donation from someone who has died, unless another living donor volunteers and actually follows through with the surgery.
About one-quarter of living liver donors get cold feet
"We make it very clear from the first day that donors always have the option of opting out," said Dr. Leslie Lilly, medical director of the Toronto General Hospital Transplant Clinic, "And it doesn't happen all that infrequently because of the magnitude of the surgery."
The living donor will have 50 to 70 per cent of the liver removed and transplanted into the recipient.
The donor's liver will regenerate in 12 weeks, but Dr. Lilly says the surgery and required time off to heal can be daunting. He says about one quarter of approved donors back out at some point. But nothing came as close as Walsh's case.
"His case was the closest I have seen it get."
Walsh hopes his story will inspire a new, comparable donor to come forward for him, but he also hopes to serve as an example of how crucial live donors are to people on the wait list.
Ontario's largest cities have the fewest donors
While the number of patients waiting for a transplant continues to increase, the rate of donors registering in Ontario is rising slightly but remains at about 30 per cent. The rate is driven lower by lack of interest in organ donation in the province's largest cities like Toronto and the GTA.
Just 21 per cent of Toronto's Ontario health-card holders are organ donors. The figure for Mississauga, where Walsh lives, is 20 per cent.
Some think diverse cultural beliefs explain why major GTA cities have the fewest registered donors by percentage  Dr. Lilly says it could be a factor.
Organ donation is permitted under Jewish law and most Christian denominations and Islamic scholars have endorsed both donation and transplantation.
"I think that people themselves may perceive for their own belief systems that organ donation is not consistent with their religious beliefs, but actually if you talk to leaders of those religions, donation is actually strongly endorsed," said Dr. Lilly.
