A man who fatally stabbed a man in the neck and cut off his legs to fit the body into an esky has been found guilty of murder.
David Leslie Hickson, 34, admitted fatally stabbing New Zealand national Campbell Paterson at a house in Edmonton, south of Cairns, in November 2014.
However, Hickson had pleaded not guilty to murder, saying he acted in self-defence.
Hickson, who pleaded guilty to interfering with a corpse, chopped up Paterson's body and put his torso into a 40-litre esky before dumping it near Yarrabah, near Cairns.
It took the jury just under two hours to reach a verdict.
There were cheers from Mr Paterson's family as the verdict was read out in court this morning.
Members of Mr Paterson's family also wept as victim impact statements were read out.
This afternoon, Justice Jim Henry sentenced Hickson to life in jail, describing the crime as "despicable".
"You moved in the murky world of drug consumption and drug dealing and enforcing drug debts — there is no honour in those who move in that world," Justice Henry said.
"You had all been taking [the drug] ice in the lead up to these events.
"This case is another example of how this drug causes increased paranoia and aggression.
"It is rightly described as a dangerous drug — it is not only dangerous for those who use it, but those who come in contact with users, who sometimes suffer inexplicable violence at the user's hands."
Hickson was also sentenced to 20 months in jail for interfering with a corpse, and more than a year for almost a dozen other summary offences, including assault and drug charges.
Justine Henry described Hickson cutting off Mr Paterson's legs as "vile misconduct".
"That act of depravity constitutes a despicable indignity done to the dead body of another," he said.
The victim's sister, Kataraina Paterson, who travelled from New Zealand to attend the trial, spoke outside the court.
"Hearing the details were just awful — we are just grateful we have a guilty verdict.
"Hickson deserves to go to jail for life.
"We will heal a lot hearing this guilty verdict, although it won't bring him [her brother] back."
Hickson said he feared for his safety
During his trial, Hickson told the court he had acquired a sawn-off shotgun, a samurai sword and "zombie slayer" knife because he had feared for his safety.
But Hickson said he did not mean to kill Mr Paterson and stabbed him in self-defence.
"I put weapons at every door, just had weapons scattered everywhere, really — knives, guns, bats," he said.
He said he did not alert authorities because he "panicked".
Hickson 'worked as enforcer for crime boss'
The court heard Hickson and Mr Paterson, nicknamed "Mooks", had worked for a crime boss known as Kadro and were users of the drug ice.
Hickson told the court he was an "enforcer", collecting money for Kadro and sourcing drugs before the pair had a falling out.
In the weeks leading up to the stabbing, Hickson said one of Kadro's associates attacked him with an iron bar over the theft of money intended for the purchase of guns.
He said on another occasion, his ex-girlfriend went to his house and found the back door broken and Mr Paterson and other men going through his belongings.
Hickson said the night before the stabbing, Mr Paterson was at Hickson's house at Edmonton putting up tarps and laying plastic on the floor.
Hickson said he believed Mr Paterson was planning to do him harm in order to win favour with Kadro.
He said he discovered text messages from Kadro on Mr Paterson's mobile phone and decided to confront him.
When Mr Paterson allegedly lunged for a broken-up pair of shears on a table, Hickson said he grabbed a "zombie slayer" knife on the couch and stabbed Mr Paterson above the collar bone.
