Environment Minister Shannon Phillips is reassuring Albertans that the province’s climate leadership plan will benefit both the environment and their pocketbooks in the long term.
“When we roll out those efficiency programs, many people will be in a situation where their bills are reduced more than what the carbon levy would have cost,” she said Tuesday during a town hall call-in.
The plan includes introducing a tax of $20 per tonne of carbon Jan. 1, ending coal-fired electrical generation by 2030 and phasing in renewable energy sources.
Phillips had said the town halls will give Albertans an opportunity to learn more about the details of the strategy.
One Edmonton resident who called in questioned how the carbon levy would help businesses struggling due to low oil and gas prices.
“We are barely hanging on and now we have these taxes,” he said. “Can this energy plan be pushed off until Alberta is officially out of a recession?”
More than 1,000 people gathered Sunday at a Calgary rally to demand the NDP scrap its carbon tax. The event had been organized by Ezra Levant’s Rebel Media and drew people who had lost jobs in the oil and gas industry. The NDP has said carbon rebates will offset the levy for low- and middle-income families.
Households earning up to $95,000 will be eligible for a full rebate, Phillips said.
“Alberta is the only place in North America that doesn’t have any energy efficiency programming,” she said. “We have really tried to focus on more practical energy efficiencies … things like insulation … light bulbs, low-flow shower heads … not everyone can buy a brand-new car.”
Phillips also touted the recent approval of two major pipeline projects.
“Those pipeline approvals will lead to 22,000 new jobs,” she said, adding that the government plans to invest in renewable energy and clean technology.
A second town hall for southern Alberta residents will take place Dec. 14 from 7 p.m. to 8:15 p.m.
Those wanting to participate can call 1-855-808-5160 (toll-free), participate online or wait for the government’s invitation call on your land line.
cclancy@postmedia.com
