A group representing Alberta’s liquor stores is advocating for the alcohol industry’s involvement in the sale of legalized recreational marijuana.
“It’s unfortunate from our perspective that the task force took out an entire industry for selling cannabis, especially when that industry has such a good track record,” said Ivonne Martinez, president of the Alberta Liquor Store Association. “We have high compliance, we sell in a responsible way.”
Her comments followed the release of a report Tuesday that was commissioned by the federal Liberal government. The framework document recommended that recreational marijuana shouldn’t be sold in the same locations as alcohol or tobacco. It also recommended storefront and mail-order sales to Canadians over the age of 18 and personal growing limits of four plants per person.
“We have discovered that regulation of cannabis will touch every aspect of our society,” said the 106-page report.
The task force, headed by former federal Liberal cabinet minister Anne McLellan of Edmonton, said production should be monitored with a “seed-to-sale tracking system” to prevent diversions to the black market.
“Our advice includes safeguards that we believe are important to attain the objectives set out by the government to better protect the health and safety of Canadians by regulating access to cannabis,” McLellan told a news conference in Ottawa.
Martinez said provinces should be afforded the autonomy to regulate marijuana sales.
“We at least want to be considered … when we are already selling a controlled substance in Alberta,” she said, adding the task force made the connection that selling alcohol and cannabis together would encourage the use of both. “We can’t control what consumers are going to do, but we can control that recreational marijuana is sold in a responsible and safe manner.”
She said separate entrances to stores or separate facilities may be necessary, but liquor stores should be involved in the sales.
“We’re uniquely qualified to do this,” she said. “Hopefully, we can work with government to help operators understand how to sell it and how to advise consumers.”
