Queensland's holiday road toll has risen to eight, the highest in the nation, following the death of a man in Cairns in the state's far north.
Police said the motorcyclist crashed into a concrete barrier at a roundabout at Edmonton about midnight.
The man, believed to be in his 40s, died at the scene.
Queensland's Easter long weekend road toll is the highest since records began in 1992, and double that of NSW, which has the next highest count.
On Sunday afternoon, a four-year-old boy riding a scooter on the road in Kingston, south of Brisbane, was hit by a car and killed.
He had been playing with his brother.
Inspector Ivan Sikorsky said alcohol, driver behaviour, not wearing seatbelts and inattention were contributing factors in each death on Queensland's roads this Easter.
"I can state categorically that all of our deaths could have been avoidable," he said.
Road Policing Command Acting Assistant Commissioner Michael Keating said on average there were 3.5 deaths on Queensland's roads over Easter since records began in 1992.
"It is the worst count since records began," he said.
"People have made poor decisions."
Driver clocked doing 194kph in a 100 zone
Since Friday, nearly 55,000 roadside breath tests had been conducted and 458 drug tests.
Queensland Police said the highest breath test reading registered was from a driver at Coolum Beach, on the Sunshine Coast, who blew 0.241.
Officers also issued 17,000 speeding and 210 mobile phone use tickets.
Just outside of Mareeba in far north Queensland last night, a motorist clocked 194kph in a 100kph zone.
"All for the reason of rushing home so he could get ready for work," Inspector Sikorsky said.
"At 194 kilometres an hour there is very little control that driver would've had of his vehicle and it could've been another tragedy."
The national Easter road toll sits at 19, with a further three deaths recorded in Western Australia, two in Victoria, one in South Australia and the Northern Territory, and no fatalities in Tasmania or the ACT.
