EDMONTON, Ky (WBKO) -- One of the biggest fires in Metcalfe County history, now becoming clearer to the community and investigators.
Arson investigators with Kentucky State Police and the ATF were back at the scene Thursday, set up using a mobile command unit.
"It just engulfed everything. Everything," said Valerie Taylor.
More than fifty firefighters battled the blaze at Scott's City Limits for hours Tuesday night all the way after the sun rose Wednesday.
The light showed what some feared. The building was burned to the ground.
Eyewitnesses said they could see the smoke and the flames from more than ten miles away, but one woman had a unique perspective. She woke up with the fire surrounding her.
"I'm lucky enough to here as it is. If it hadn't have been for that phone call I wouldn't be here."
Valarie Taylor has been watching the building for the owner the last six months. Asleep inside, the ring of the phone around 8:30 PM Tuesday night is what saved her life.
"When I opened the door to the room I was staying in, the smoke engulfed me."
Able to navigate her way outside with only the clothes on her back, she finally saw the chaos taking over the 10,000 square foot building.
"I walked around the side of the building and the whole back corner of it was on fire," said Taylor.
Surrounded by her daughter, Delicie, Wednesday for support, Valarie couldn't help but think of the building's history.
"He's had some pretty big name people up here."
And it's owner Kevin Scott Gentry.
"All of his family pictures, all of his mementos, anything that anybody ever gave him was in that building. His life was in that building."
Gentry wasn't in his building Tuesday night, because he's in the Barren County Detention Center, arrested in March for a murder for hire plot.
Gentry's bond was set at $250,000.
With no insurance on the property according to Valerie, and it's owner one county away, she's feeling an immense weight.
"You pick yourself up and you start all over," added Taylor.
A weight moved one day at a time.
Nearly half a dozen arson investigators with Kentucky State Police and the ATF, were on scene Wednesday.
No word yet on if foul play was involved in the fire. Witnesses said it appeared the fire may have started as small separate fires throughout the property.
KSP said the loss of the building totaled more than $1 million dollars in damage.
