AS the temperature takes a nose dive rough sleepers can take shelter - by spending the night in church.
All Saints’ in Edmonton is taking part in the Winter Night Shelter scheme to provide food and shelter for homeless people.
It is one of seven churches in Enfield operating a shelter that will run for thirteen weeks from January 4.
Parishioner and one of the two co-ordinators, David Bayton, said: “Last year was the first year we did it here and it was a real eye-opener.
“People were apprehensive about what it would involve.
“You tend to think the guests will be men in rags, who have drink problems, but they are people like you and me who have fallen on hard times, for whatever reason.
“We all became really close and by the end of the three months it was quite upsetting when it all came to an end.”
Rough sleepers have the option of going to a Crisis charity centre at Christmas, so the winter night shelter, in Church Street, begins in January, when many are back on the streets again.
Guests are referred by outside agencies – they can’t just turn up at the door – and must be drug and drink free when they are there.
The men and women are given a home cooked evening meal and then chat with volunteers before turning in for the night on inflatable beds with clean sheets. The next morning there’s breakfast -  luxuries they don’t get sleeping on the streets.
Fellow co-ordinator, Anne Marie Sanderson said: “There’s so much stigma involved with homeless people. But a lot of the people here last year had jobs and were really struggling to survive after being kicked out of their private rented accommodation.
“It makes you realise, it really can happen to anybody at any time.
“I have a support network and could move in with family or friends if I lost my house, but a lot of people don’t have that support.”
Guests are encouraged to save half their income, if they have jobs, while staying at the shelter and are helped by the Pilion Trust, an anti-poverty charity that tries to break the cycle and get them back on their feet.
Anne Marie added: “You can’t solve the problem, but by volunteering you are doing something tangible to help.
“A lot of the guests spend all day every day on the street and have nowhere to go.
“It must wear you down, never sleeping properly always watching your back. So this is a slice of normality, a chat if they want to, some food and somewhere safe to sleep.”
Volunteers are split half and half between people who are parishioners and those who aren’t.
They set up the beds, do the laundry, cook and spend time with guests and the night shelter need more of them.
To volunteer email: asn9nightshelter@gmail.com
