London’s entrenched crystal meth crisis has prompted the city’s homeless coalition to launch a campaign next year educating the public, agencies and the government about the devastating drug.
“We want to help the general public understand we are in a crystal meth crisis and it has a huge impact on the individuals, on the services and on the general well-being of the community,” said Abe Oudshoorn, outgoing chair of the London Homeless Coalition.
“Not to oversimplify, but we can almost blame the one substance for how things feel in our city.”
The coalition is a collection of agencies and advocates involved with homelessness. Each year it sets priorities.
Crystal methamphetamine addiction began taking hold in London about two years ago, presenting a startlingly different face to addiction than other opioids.
Opioids are depressants that slow a person’s system. Crystal meth is a stimulant that speeds up the body’s central nervous system and over time causes violence, delusions, paranoia and hallucinations.
London’s homelessness programs are working, evident in a decrease in shelter visits and increase in people getting housing, Oudshoorn said.
But the perception in the public might be different, he said.
“When people talk about how downtown feels worse or places don’t feel safe, we want to help people to clearly understand that is the impact of one substance.”
The coalition wants to push the province to raise social assistance rates to help people find proper housing, Oudshoorn said.
Without access to proper housing, people are forced into unsafe and unhealthy housing that affects mental health and can encourage addictions, he said.
“It is such a fundamental gap between moving people from homelessness to housing, the financial side. There will be a call to raise the rates.”
Social service agencies have already had to change how they handle people addicted to crystal meth compared to people addicted to opioids, Oudshoorn noted.
City agencies that are part of the coalition are working on a drug plan for London, but will help share information while that plan is developed, Oudshoorn said.
In London, advocates say crystal meth use is much higher than the use of fentanyl and its toxic and more powerful variant known as carfentanil that are gaining attention outside the city.
St. Thomas police have confirmed one of the overdoses in that city the past two months was from carfentanil and warned first responders to be vigilant.
In a powdered form, carfentanil, 10,000 times more potent than morphine and about 100 times more potent than fentanyl, can be deadly if breathed in.
There haven’t been any seizures of carfentanil in London, said Const. Sandasha Bough, a spokesperson for London police.
Middlesex-London EMS reminded its crews this month to prepare for the deadly drug and wear masks if entering a suspected drug house.
“It is more of a precautionary measure. We haven’t any big influx of that yet,” said Jay Loosley, superintendent of education for Middlesex-London EMS. “But I’m sure it’s coming.
