PARIS, Mo. — In 1999, Lynn and Bob Fodge were looking to move their farming operation from Indiana, where both were born and raised. Their oldest son was interested in raising cattle, and if the Fodges were going to expand their operation, they needed to relocate.
“Bobby, our oldest son, is a cattleman, has been since the day he was born,” Lynn Fodge says. “In Indiana, there just wasn’t room to expand there.”
The family considered locations across the massive middle swath of the country.
“We looked from mid-Ohio to the western borders of Montana and Wyoming,” Fodge says.
The family ended up picking a spot in Monroe County in northeast Missouri. In the last few years, Missouri has ranked second or third in number of beef cows, occasionally switching spots with Oklahoma and ranking only behind Texas. Fodge said Missouri had a lot to offer for them as a place to raise cattle.
“There was a big enough piece to do what we wanted,” she says. “… It’s good here. There is a lot of marginal ground here that until two years ago hadn’t been put into crops.”
Fodge says it’s competitive for pasture, but their forages and crops meet their needs.
The family calls their farm Hopewell Farms, and they grow row crops and Angus beef cattle. They farm with Bobby and his wife, Patty, their younger son, Alec, and his wife, Annie. Some members of the family are more into cattle, and some are more into the row crops, but they all pitch in and help where it’s needed.
Fodge says they are the fourth largest Angus breeder in Missouri, and on a recent early May day, black cattle dotted the lush green grass in the pastures fanning out from the farm office. The white boards on the wall helped keep track of who was coming to pick up cattle. Periodically, the phone rang with customers calling.
They sell their Angus cattle to customers all over Missouri and out of state as well. Fodge enjoys working with these people, building relationships with the repeat customers.
“I suppose the interactions with our customers would be the thing that is the best for me,” she says.
As for the decision to relocate to Missouri, the Show-Me State offers a lot of benefits for beef cattle production, University of Missouri Extension ag specialist Valerie Tate says. It starts with good forage production.
“I think forages are one of the main reasons why Missouri is a beef cattle state,” she says. “We have the opportunity to provide grazing for a big part of the year.”
Tate, based in Linn County in north central Missouri, says producers can stockpile forage toward the end of the year to cut into hay feeding days.
Also, Missouri has a lot of highly erodible land that can be dedicated to pasture, Tate says, and a good marketing structure.
“Our landscape and our topography are well suited to growing forages,” she says.
“…We also have good access to livestock markets.”
Of course, Fodge knows the challenges of raising cattle as well, the endless fixing and building of fence, combatting cold winters or dry summers, having to alter plans when the cattle are in need.
The cattle business is tougher than it used to be, she says. Margins are tight and producers have to work more than ever to reach out to people who don’t have personal experience with farming and livestock production.
But Fodge and her family have found Missouri to be a good spot to raise their cattle and enjoy the way of life.
“It’s still a way of life, it’s still what we want to do,” she says. “You fight your battles that you have to fight.”
