Rende is a town and comune in Calabria, southern Italy, home to the headquarters of the University of Calabria. It has a population of about 35,000, or more than 60,000 if the university students living there are taken into account. It is divided in two parts: the old town, which is stands on a high hill, and the modern area, on level ground, which is part of the urban area of Cosenza and is the centre of the city's economy. The ancient Enotrii, coming from the plain of Sant'Eufemia and Clampetia (Amantea), founded near the river which they called Acheronte the early Acheruntia and subsequently Pandosia. The florid area was unfit to defend during conflict, so some Acheruntini left the area to take refuge in a more defensible site: today's Nogiano. This new settlement, which dates from 520 BC, was named Aruntia ("the houses of the strong") and then Arintha. Hecataeus of Miletus, who lived in 500 BC, cites Arintha as the City of Bretia of Enotra origin. During Roman domination, Arintha was a Municipio, but when Spartacus with his army passed through the valley of the Crati, many Acheruntini followed him. With the arrival of the barbarians close to Cosentia the Acheruntini offered a brave and staunch resistance, but despite their efforts all areas of Arintha fell into the hands of barbarians in 547 AD. In later centuries, as well as many common Calabrian, Arintha subdued the Byzantine and Muslim rulers; Muslims countered by Acheruntini that in 721 AD took part in the struggle for the liberation of the territory of Naples. The Saracens' reaction was tough and the Cities of Arintha, Bisignano, Montalto and Cosenza suffered retaliation by the Muslims, but in 921 AD an important battle was won and the valley of Crati was freed by Muslim oppression. Saracens returned more than before and forced the rebels to take refuge in Sila; they could return to their lands only with the coming of the Normans in 1059. Arintha was under the direct control of the Normans, particularly Robert Guiscard, which imposed on the City payment of tributes and the presence of a "Lord", the archbishop of Cosenza. But in 1091 the entire district of Cosenza rebelled for the taxes too high. Roger Borsa, the son of Robert Guiscard and designated heir, succeeded his father in the management of the territory. He asked the involvement of Roger I, his uncle, and Bohemond, his brother, who repressed the rebellion by force. Bohemond obtained the control of the county of Cosenza. Bohemond d’Hauteville decided to build a castle on the solitary hill between streams Surdo and Emoli, which dominates valley of the Crati. The massive structure was finished in 1095 with the help of Mirandi Artifices. In this period, for the first time appears in official documents the name Renne, it means Kingdom in the old French language (idiom of the Normans in Southern Italy in that period).
