Hartford is a city in Washington and Dodge counties in the U.S. state of Wisconsin. As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 14,223. All of this population resided in the Washington County portion of the city. John Thiel and Nicolas Simon first surveyed the area that would become Hartford in 1843. James and Charles Rossman accompanied Nicolas Simon back to Hartford in 1844, and soon bought 40 acres around the rapids of the Rubicon River. After constructing a dam across rapids in the river, the Rossmans built a sawmill that harnessed the power of the water to make lumber for the growth of the area. Rails were laid in 1855 that linked Chicago, Milwaukee, La Crosse and Minneapolis until the early 1900s. The town was named after Hartford, Connecticut. Hartford was a New England settlement. The original founders of Hartford consisted entirely of settlers from New England. Most of whom were from Connecticut and Vermont, though some came from rural Massachusetts, New Hampshire and the region of downeast Maine. These people were "Yankees", that is to say they were descended from the English Puritans who settled New England in the 1600s. They were part of a wave of New England farmers who headed west into what was then the wilds of the Northwest Territory during the early 1800s. Most of them arrived as a result of the completion of the Erie Canal and the end of the Black Hawk War. When they arrived in what is now Hartford there was nothing but dense virgin forest and wild prairie. They laid out farms, constructed roads, erected government buildings and established post routes. They brought with them many of their Yankee New England values, such as a passion for education, establishing many schools as well as staunch support for abolitionism. They were mostly members of the Congregationalist Church though some were Episcopalian. Due to the second Great Awakening some of them had converted to Methodism and some had some had become Baptists before moving to what is now Hartford. Hartford, like much of Wisconsin, would be culturally very continuous with early New England culture for most of its early history. The first church in Hartford was the First Congregational Church, constructed by Yankee New England migrants. The Church was built in 1847. German and Irish immigrants began arriving after 1842, though initially in small numbers. In the late 1870s the number of German immigrants increased.
