Banda (Hindi: बांदा; Urdu: باندہ‎) is a city and a municipal board in Banda district in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. Banda lies south of the Yamuna river in the Bundelkhand region. It is the administrative headquarters of Banda District. The town is well connected to major cities with railways and state highways. The town is near the right bank of the river Ken, 95 m. S. W. of Allahabad. Banda is famous for its Shajar stone, used for making jewellery. Banda was a town and district of British India, in the Allahabad division of the United Provinces. The population in 1901 was 22,565. It was formerly, but is no longer, a military cantonment. Among Banda's languages are Bundeli, which has a lexical similarity of 72-91% with Hindi[5] (compared to 60% for German and English)[6] and is spoken by about 7,800,000 people in Bundelkhand.[5] The city elects members to the Lok Sabha as well as the Uttar Pradesh Vidhan Sabha (State Assembly). The city is under the jurisdiction of a District Magistrate, who is an IAS officer. The Collectors are in charge of property records and revenue collection for the Central Government, and oversee the national elections held in the city. The Collector is also responsible for maintaining law and order in the city. The city is administered by the Banda Municipal Corporation with executive power vested in the Municipal Commissioner of Banda, who is an administrative officer. The corporation comprises elected members (corporators elected from the wards directly by the people) with City Mayor as its head. An Assistant Municipal Commissioner oversees each ward for administrative purposes. The Banda Police is headed by a Deputy Inspector General, who is an IPS officer. The Banda Police comes under the state Home Ministry. The city is divided into several police zones and traffic police zones. The Traffic Police is a semi-autonomous body under the Banda Police. The Banda Fire Brigade department is headed by the Chief Fire Officer, who is assisted by Deputy Chief Fire Officers and Divisional Officers.
