Dabra is a town and a municipality in Gwalior district in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India located near NH-75 national highway. Dabra (Hindi: डबरा) was also known as Padmapawaya in ancient times. Great poet Bhavabhuti  had received his education at Dabra (ancient time Padmapawaya). Dabra has a sugar producing factory and is almost equidistant from New Delhi and Bhopal. It is connected to New Delhi, Mumbai, Bhopal, Agra, Mathura, Varanasi, Kanpur, Lucknow, Haridwar, Chhapra, Gaya, Pune, Nasik, Jammu, Amritsar, Nanded Sahib, Allahabad, Ferozpur, Chindwara, [Udaipur]], Jaipur, Ajmer, Puri, Indore, Jabalpur, Sagar and Bhubaneshwar through rail network. Gwalior and Jhansi are the two big cities located 42 km and 58 km away from Dabra respectively. It is the biggest municipality in Madhya Pradesh as of now and naturally very beautiful. Sind river is just 5 km away from Dabra. Sonagir, a famous jain pilgrimage and Datia another famous tourist place are located 15 km and 30 km from Dabra respectively. Other famous sites are Bamrouli Hanuman Temple (5 km from Dabra towards Jhansi), Jaurasi Hanuman Temple (25 km from Dabra towards Gwalior), Dhumeshwar Mahadev Temple (30 km from Dabra towards Narwar), tomb of peer baba at Tekanpur and Shri Dev temple located at Pichhore just 10Km away from Dabra (one of the ancient 300-year-old temple located in the vicinity of Dabra). One of the nine jewels of Akbar Abdul Fazal (on the behest of Jahangir by Vir Singh Deo, the raja of Orchha) was killed and has a tomb near Aantri village (30 km from Dabra towards Gwalior). Van Khandeshwar Mahadev Temple (2 km from Dabra towards Gwalior), Kale Baba Temple, Gayatri Temple and Thakur Baba Temple are another famous temples in or nearby Dabra. Annual fair held at Thakur Baba temple is very famous locally. Natives of Dabra are known for their politeness, truthfulness and amiability. Dabar city is also known for cascading landscape; in addition to its massive production of 'Dhaan' (Rice grain with chaff). Unity in diversity is one of the unique character of this town. Discrimination based on religion, region, language, caste, gender and education is rarely found in Dabra. In any festival, natives of Dabra participate in such a harmonious way, it can even be showcased as an example of national integration.
