Jefferson is a city in Jefferson County, Wisconsin, United States, and is its county seat. It is located at the confluence of the Rock and Crawfish rivers. The population was 7,973 at the 2010 census. The city is located partially within the Town of Jefferson. The location of Jefferson was selected to make use of the water power and transportation opportunities offered by the Rock River. It was the furthest point that a steamboat was able to navigate the Rock in 1839. Later bridges built downstream prevented such navigation. Jefferson was a New England settlement. The original founders of Jefferson consisted entirely of settlers from New England, particularly Connecticut, rural Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire and Maine, as well some from upstate New York who were born to parents who had migrated to that region from New England shortly after the American Revolution. These people were "Yankees", that is to say they were descended from the English Puritans who settled New England in the 1600s. They were part of a wave of New England farmers who headed west into what was then the wilds of the Northwest Territory during the early 1800s. Most of them arrived as a result of the completion of the Erie Canal as well as the end of the Black Hawk War. When they arrived in what is now Jefferson there was nothing but dense virgin forest and wild prairie, the New Englanders laid out farms, constructed roads, erected government buildings and established post routes. They brought with them many of their Yankee New England values, such as a passion for education, establishing many schools as well as staunch support for abolitionism. They were mostly members of the Congregationalist Church though some were Episcopalian. Due to the second Great Awakening some of them had converted to Methodism and some had become Baptists before moving to what is now Jefferson. Jefferson, like much of Wisconsin, would be culturally very continuous with early New England culture for most of its early history.
