San Marcos is a municipality in the Carazo Department of Nicaragua. It is located at 45 kilometres (28 mi) south from the capital, Managua, and has a population of around 30,600 inhabitants. San Marcos has wonderful weather that enables the production of coffee and a large variety of tropical flowers and fruits. San Marcos' inhabitants are a Catholic majority, a heritage of the Spaniard Colonization. They are fervent followers of the Spaniard Catholic Traditions. For example, the most notorious festivity, where many people gather every year, is the celebration of their Patron San Marcos. San Marcos' Catholic Parish Church, in the middle of the town square, is a legacy of the Spaniard influence, as could be seen in its construction and designs. San Marcos is host to Keiser University-Latin American Campus, a campus of Keiser University (headquartered in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, USA), giving San Marcos the prestige of a University City. Keiser University Latin American Campus is perhaps the only U.S. accredited institution of higher education granting degrees in Nicaragua and most of the region. 20 years and more than 1,200 graduates after its founding (the campus in San Marcos was host to the University of Mobile (1993) and Ave Maria University (until July 2013), alumni from the Latin American Campus have gone on to work and study in graduate programs throughout the Americas, the United States and across the globe. They have set an international standard of professional and academic success. Receiving students from all over Central America and the United States, Keiser University Latin American Campus occupies the building where the famous Normal de Señoritas Salvadora de Somoza was located. This was an institution that educated young girls to become elementary school teachers. It was also the host of students from all over the country and Central America. The campus encompasses over 740,000 square feet including green areas and athletic field. It has 23 classrooms, a library and auditorium, campus dining facilities, modern computer and science laboratories, spacious dormitories, faculty offices, fitness center, administrative buildings, student services building, conference center, and a 300-person chapel, La Purísima.
