Karak (Pashto: کرك, Urdu: کرک‎) is the headquarters of Karak District in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is 123 km from Peshawar on the main Indus Highway between Peshawar and Karachi. It is located at 33°7'12N 71°5'41E. Karak is said to be the single district in Pakistan which is inhabited by only one tribe of Pashtuns — the Khattak. The predominant language of Karak is Pashto; the dialect is the softer "Kandahari" Pashto as opposed to the harder "Peshawari" dialect. Urdu and English are understood by majority however, they are spoken to a lesser degree. Till 1956, the district was part of the princely state of Teri and was ruled by Nawab of Teri. Teri State was divided into tappas (satrapies)- Teri, Seni-Khurram and Barak. In 1956 Teri State was merged with Kohat Tehsil. Thus between 1956 and 1982, present district of Karak was administratively part of Kohat. Karak was established as a separate district July 1, 1982. The district is predominantly populated by the Pashtun Khattak tribe. There are several natural resources that have been discovered in Karak. The salt mines were well known in antiquity and a major source of salt for the Indian subcontinent into British imperial times. More recently oil, gas, and uranium have all been discovered. Oil and gas reservoirs have been found in the towns of Makori, Noshpa Banda, Gurguri and Lachi circle Teri is also very important village of Karak .The Nawab of Dist Karak and Khattak Nama etc. was Ghazi Khan son of Darwaish Muhammad the brother of Akor Khan. Then Nawab Jaffar, then Nawab Allah hKhan and Nawab Abdullah Khan wife Mrs. Moran daughter of Nawab Behram Khan Son of Khushal Khattak. Nawab Behram or Nawab Abdullah khan arrested the important Khan of Teri a.k.a. Ashraf khan Hijre, who died in Jail . See The History Book " Tareekh Murassa " but this history book is silent about Nawab Ghazi Khan the brother of Akor Khan and about Nawab Jafar .The father of Akor Khan and Ghazi Khan etc. was Darwaish Muhammad and the father of Darwaish Muhammad Was Taman Baba. The son of Taman was Hassan (Tomb in Lachi on main High way Seddle/Kaye On top of hill(police Check post } and the father of Hassan was Sheikh Ali {Baig} Baba (Shrine in Lachi Bala).God may bless upon all (Syeds} Khattaks, because Syed Karlanr was Syed and we all are from them from mother side. and from father side we are all Khattak. by Umer Khel Khattak
