Bardejov ( pronunciation ; German: Bartfeld, Hungarian: Bártfa, Rusyn: Бардеёв, Polish: Bardiów) is a town in North-Eastern Slovakia. It is situated in the Šariš region on a floodplain terrace of the Topľa River, in the hills of the Beskyd Mountains. It exhibits numerous cultural monuments in its completely intact medieval town center. The town is one of UNESCO's World Heritage Sites and currently maintains a population of about 30,000 inhabitants. The territory of present-day Bardejov has attracted settlers since the Stone Age. Traces of human settlements in Bardejov can be traced back to around 20,000 B.C. However, the first written reference to the town dates back to 1247, when monks from Bardejov complained to King Béla IV about a violation of the town’s borders by Prešov, a neighbouring city. There is mention of German settlers coming up from Prešov in these records as well. The city is mentioned in Hypatian Codex for 1240 when in the fall Daniel of Galicia passed it traveling from Hungary to Poland. In 1320, King Charles Robert granted the settlers extensive city privileges and the town speedily began to grow. The main business of the people was trade, farming and crafts. Bardejov was a convenient center of trade due to its location on the road between the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea. In 1352, the town was granted the privilege to set up an annual fair (jarmok) dedicated to St. Aegidius on September 1. The deed mentions a new construction of the town of Bardejov with an order by King Louis I to fortify it.[1] The entire defensive circuit was completed, with three gates on the main routes and bastions at strategic points.[2] In 1376, the King Ladislaus I granted Bardejov the status of a free royal town. More than 50 guilds controlled the flourishing economy. Zigmund of Luxemburg granted the town storage privileges in 1402, for the goods brought here by the Russian and Polish merchants. Bardejov merchants were also free to travel across the entire country as far as Dalmatia without paying duty or royal taxes. There was a second phase of fortification between 1420 and 1474.
