Trenton is a small city in Wayne County in the southeast portion of the U.S. state of Michigan. At the 2010 census, the city population was 18,853. The city is part of Downriver, a collection of mostly blue-collar communities south of Detroit on the west bank of the Detroit River. Many residents are employed in the city's factories such as the Chrysler Trenton Engine Plant, Solutia, and the Trenton Channel Power Plant. Oakwood South Shore Hospital (formerly known as Seaway Hospital) is located within city limits and has 203 beds. The former McLouth Steel plant is also located in the city. There is rail service in the city. The city operates the 21,000-square-foot (2,000 m2) Trenton Veterans Memorial Library and a historical museum. Trenton has 15 churches of 10 denominations. The Battle of Monguagon took place in Trenton on what is now the site of Elizabeth Park. Elizabeth Park is part of the Wayne County park system and was the first county park in Michigan, designated in 1919. The founder of Trenton is considered to be Abram Caleb Truax, a member of the territorial militia in attendance when General William Hull surrendered Detroit to the British General Isaac Brock early in the War of 1812. After the war, in 1816, Truax acquired a large tract of land in the Michigan Territory along the Detroit River from the U.S. government and constructed a sawmill, church and store in what is today downtown Trenton. When Territorial Governor Lewis Cass organized Monguagon Township in 1827, Truax became the first Township Supervisor. He laid out the village of Truaxton in 1834. A post office had been established there named "Monguago" in 1828 with Truax as the first postmaster. The post office name was changed to "Truago" in 1837, and to "Trenton" in 1847, after a type of limestone mined from a local quarry. The village was platted and recorded under the name Trenton in 1850 by Abram's son and daughter George Brigham Truax and Sophia Slocum, the wife of industrialist Giles Slocum. The Slocum family estate was given to the county, becoming what is known as Elizabeth Park, named after Elizabeth Slocum.
