Solano ([1]) is a first class urban municipality in the province of Nueva Vizcaya, Philippines. According to the 2010 census, it has a population of 56,134 people. Solano is the main commercial and financial center of Nueva Vizcaya. It has the most number of fast food restaurants in the province, including Jollibee, Greenwich Pizza, McDonalds, Chowking, Mang Inasal and more. It is also the financial hub of northern Vizcaya, with many major banks such as Metrobank, Banco de Oro, Bank of the Philippine Islands, Philippine National Bank, Landbank, Rizal Commercial Banking Corporation, as well as rural and regional banks maintaining their presence in the area. Solano, being the premier town in Nueva Vizcaya and the fastest-growing municipality in the region, is slated to become Cagayan Valley Region's 5th City after Tuguegarao, Santiago, Cauayan, and Ilagan. Solano is politically subdivided into 22 barangays. In 1760, the original name of the town was Bintauan. Its pioneer settlers were the Gaddang tribe. The municipality was founded in 1767 by Father Alejandro Vidal, a Dominican priest who led a Spanish mission. In 1768, it was called "Lungabang", which means "cave" in the Gaddang dialect. The name was later changed to "Lumabang" by the Spaniards for convenience. In 1851, Governor General Antonio Urbiztondo declared Lumabang a barrio of Bayombong for not having sufficient inhabitants and revenue to maintain itself. Governor General Ramon Solano y Llanderal authorized the separation of Lumabang as barrio from Bayombong. In 1853, the first Ilocanos arrived brought by Don Diego Lumicao, former Gobernadorcillo. In 1889, it was renamed Solano, in honor of Governor General Ramon Solano y Llanderal. The town was planned by Father Juan Villaverde. The poblacion, as designed, consisted of 14 parallel wide streets, each having a width of 20 meters. The streets run from north to south and east to west forming 100 square blocks with an aggregate area of one hectare per block. Solano was the largest municipality in the province until two of its barangays, Caliat and Bintawan, were segregated to become the municipalities of Quezon and Villaverde respectively. The land area of Solano was correspondingly reduced to 13,980 hectares. In 1957, the barrios of Ibung and Bintawan were separated to form the town of Ibung, later renamed as Villaverde.
