Aguilar is a third class municipality in the province of Pangasinan, Philippines. According to the 2010 census, it has a population of 39,529 people. The municipality was named after Spanish governor-general Rafael Maria de Aguilar, who ordered the establishment of an independent civil political unit on 16 July 1805 The Municipality of Aguilar had its early beginnings as cattle ranch founded by the Spaniards. The place was known then as Sitio Balubad, which was then still part of the town of Binalatongan (now San Carlos). On the western part were the Zambales Mountains with thick forests and verdant foliage. It was hunter’s paradise with deer roaming here and there with an occasional wild boar making an appearance. The grass in the plains were succulent fare for fattening cattle and the water from the brooks and streams clear and sparkling. On the eastern part was the Agno River. At that time, there were no roads were yet established. There were footpaths which eventually roads providing access from one place to another. The river arteries constituted the main mode of transportation in the interior towns. Through these river systems, boats sailed from the Ilocos provinces in the North southwards to Dagupan, Calasiao, Lingayen and sometimes even as far as San Isidro De Labrador, Salasa, Aguilar and Camiling. Worth noting was the fossiliferous river bank in Camiling useful in making lime, while mineral waters consisting of ferruginous and alkaline waters were and are still found in Aguilar and Mangatarem. As a thriving place for cattle and bountiful rice harvests, it was natural for Aguilar to attract people from other towns to stay and settle in the place. The early settlers prospered and lived in peace and contentment. When the Spaniards in Lingayen heard of this flourishing village, they sent Spanish explorers through the town of Salasa to visit the place. Some Spanish soldiers and priest were left to organize a pueblo. In time, the clamor to convert the settlement into a town became popular. A petition was therefore, filed with the principales or municipal officials of Binalatongan to convert the village into a town. The petition was finally favorably endorsed.
