Livermore is a city in Humboldt County, Iowa, United States. The population was 384 at the 2010 census. Livermore is the hometown of Baltimore Ravens tight end Dallas Clark. Livermore was founded in 1879. The community grew in importance as an agricultural center with grain elevators and feed mills and merchants serving the surrounding rich farmland. The community is located adjacent to the confluence of the East Fork Des Moines River and Lott's Creek. Early industries included a brick and tile factory and agricultural products processing. As north central Iowa's rural population dwindled, so has Livermore's population. Its remaining elementary school closed in 2005. Livermore is located at 42°52′1″N 94°11′3″W (42.866849, -94.184051) at the confluence of Lotts Creek with the East Fork Des Moines River. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 0.70 square miles (1.81 km2), all of it land. With a sizeable German Catholic population surrounding Livermore, the community's largest church is Sacred Heart Catholic, followed by Livermore United Methodist and Immanuel Lutheran. Bethel Presbyterian Church closed in the late 1970s and the building is now home to the Livermore Community Club and museum. Other community attractions include Old Settlers' Park, which dates to 1890, when early Livermore families each contributed a log to build a cabin in the thickly wooded park located at the west entrance to the community. The town also features a library, community swimming pool and a high school baseball/softball complex. Just north of Livermore is the picturesque Spring Valley Golf Club, named Iowa's best nine-hole course, before it was expanded to 18 holes. Otto Field American Legion Post 415 is located in Livermore and the town's Friends & Neighbors Club is an active seniors organization with its own building. Livermore Daze is an annual celebration that brings together antique car enthusiasts, parade participants and hundreds of residents and visitors to the weekend event.
