Ardon (Russian: Ардо́н; Ossetian: Æрыдон, Ærydon) is a town and the administrative center of Ardonsky District in the Republic of North Ossetia-Alania, Russia, located in the center of the republic on the west bank of the Ardon River, 39 kilometers (24 mi) northwest of the republic's capital Vladikavkaz. As of the 2010 Census, its population was 18,774. Within the framework of administrative divisions, Ardon serves as the administrative center of Ardonsky District. As an administrative division, it is, together with two rural localities (the settlements of Bekan and Stepnoy), incorporated within Ardonsky District as Ardon Town Under District Jurisdiction. As a municipal division, the town of Ardon and the settlement of Bekan (but not the settlement of Stepnoy) are incorporated within Ardonsky Municipal District as Ardonskoye Urban Settlement. Закон №34-РЗ от 9 июля 2007 г. «Об административно-территориальном устройстве Республики Северная Осетия-Алания», в ред. Закона №44-РЗ от 12 ноября 2013 г. «О внесении изменений в Приложение к Закону Республики Северная Осетия–Алания "Об административно-территориальном устройстве Республики Северная Осетия–Алания" и Закон Республики Северная Осетия–Алания "Об установлении границ муниципального образования Алагирский район, наделении его статусом муниципального района, образовании в его составе муниципальных образований — городского и сельских поселений"». Вступил в силу со дня официального опубликования. Опубликован: "Северная Осетия", №148(24949), 16 августа 2007 г. (Law #34-RZ of July 9, 2007 On the Administrative-Territorial Structure of the Republic of North Ossetia–Alania, as amended by the Law #44-RZ of November 12, 2013 On Amending the Appendix to the Law of the Republic of North Ossetia–Alania "On the Administrative-Territorial Structure of the Republic of North Ossetia–Alania" and the Law of the Republic of North Ossetia–Alania "On Establishing the Borders of the Municipal Formation of Alagirsky District, Granting It the Status of a Municipal District, Establishing Municipal Formations—Urban and Rural Settlements—Within Its Structure". Effective as of the official publication date.).
