Cumberland is a small unincorporated community located within Maurice River Township in Cumberland County, New Jersey, United States. Cumberland contains only a few hundred households, concentrated primarily on Route 49 and Hesstown/Port Elizabeth-Cumberland Road. The village is bordered by Millville and Port Elizabeth in Cumberland County and Estell Manor in Atlantic County. Cumberland is almost exclusively a residential and rural community with only two retail storefronts and several cottage industries. Most residents commute to nearby Millville, Vineland, Bridgeton, or one of the county's three prisons for employment. The greater part of Cumberland is Peaslee Wildlife Management Area, New Jersey's second-largest game reserve. Cumberland is also the home to Cumberland United Methodist Church and graveyard, a station of the state of New Jersey Department of Roads and Highways, and the Cumberland Volunteer Fire Company. Like all of the small communities located within Maurice River Township, Cumberland's exact boundaries are unspecified. It does not possess its own ZIP code and is processes it mail through the 08332 Millville United States Post Office. As a result, it is frequently omitted from maps. For this reason, and due to its remote rural location and lack of retail businesses, many lifelong residents of Cumberland County are unaware of the existence of the village of Cumberland. In informal interview with the Maurice River Township Municipal Vital Statistics and Assessors offices in 2008, it was determined that the exact population of Cumberland is unknown because the United States Census Bureau does not delineate the populations of the various towns within Maurice River Township. The MRT Assessor's office also confirmed the precise number of homes in Cumberland is unknown. Extensive research of historical deeds and other documents located at the Cumberland County Court House dating back several hundred years would be necessary in order to establish the exact boundaries of the town. The Assessor's office indicated that the Cumberland Volunteer Fire Company services district F-04, which includes Cumberland and portions of Milmay. Based on the number of houses located in that district, the assessor estimated the number of households in Cumberland is 200.
