Prospect is a census-designated place (CDP) in Robeson County, North Carolina. The population was 690 at the 2000 census. Located due northeast of Pembroke, North Carolina, Prospect is a traditionally Methodist community, with its church members largely becoming representatives for the entirety of the American Indian-Methodist community. Prospect is noted for one of its native sons, Adolph Dial, whose contributions to American Indian Studies have led to an heightened awareness of the local Lumbee Tribe and Native Americans throughout the Southeastern United States. Prospect is located at 34°43′45″N 79°13′15″W (34.729295, -79.220714). According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 2.7 square miles (7.0 km2), all of it land. The Prospect community is general considered to cover as far east as Preston and Red Hill Rd., and as far North as Old Maxton/Red Spring Rd. Many believe the origin of the Prospect community began when Preston Locklear claimed large swaths of land along what is known today as the Long Swamp. Unlike the majority of Robeson County, the boundary of Prospect Community contains almost exclusively Methodist churches; the Methodist churches included within Prospect are Prospect United Methodist Church, Prospect Methodist Church, New Prospect Church, and New Prospect Methodist Church. Prospect United Methodist Church was itself founded by the Reverend W. L. Moore, the grandfather of Adolph Dial, founder of the American Indian Studies department at the University of North Carolina at Pembroke. Notably, Island Grove Baptist Church and Preston Gospel Chapel are the only non-Methodist churches in the community. Island Grove having broken-off from the theology to join the Burnt Swamp Baptist Association in 1955. Preston Gospel Chapel was originally called Doogle Hill and was located about a half mile east of the current location. It was established by the Scottish around 1875. Preston's original sanctuary was built in 1948. The present sanctuary was built in the late 1970's with the addition of a fellowship hall and small apartment for visiting preachers in the 1990's.
