Baldwin is a village in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 1,208 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Lake County. The village is located on the boundary between Webber Township on the north and Pleasant Plains Township on the south, with the larger portion lying in Pleasant Plains. Baldwin is primarily a tourist town. As such, much of its economy is based around the summer months. Lake County sports many lakes and rivers, as well as the vast wilderness of the Manistee National Forest. Many come to Baldwin on vacation to camp, canoe, fish, or hunt. The Shrine of the Pines is a noted tourist attraction. The nearby Pere Marquette River is one of America's Blue Ribbon fisheries and sportfishing is a major contributor to the local economy. The nearby Baldwin River, a tributary of the Pere Marquette River, is the site of the first planting of German Brown Trout in the United States on April 11, 1884. The North Lake Correctional Facility is a private, for-profit, maximum security prison that was constructed in the late 1990s by the Wackenhut Corrections Co., which has since become the GEO Group. The prison was originally built to house Michigan’s youth offenders. The GEO group expanded the prison from 500 to 1,700 beds in the late 2000s. In June 2015, 280 high security inmates convicted of crimes in the state of Vermont arrived from out-of-state prisons to the Baldwin facility. Lake Country Republican Rep. Jon Bumstead sponsored a bill in the Michigan Legislature to raise the North Lake facility to Michigan's highest security rating. The Michigan Senate voted 23-14 to remove the former restrictive provision, making it legal for the GEO Group to house out-of-state prisoners of all security classifications in Baldwin. As Lake County has high poverty and unemployment rates, the employment possibilities at the private prison have been seen as a positive for the residents. County Commissioner Dan Sloan stated that as many as 150 jobs would result from the influx of out-of-state prisoners to the facility.
