Bali is a town and a municipality in Pali district in the state of Rajasthan, India. The town is situated on the left bank of the Mithari River. This walled town was the headquarters of a district having the same name in the Jodhpur State. Bali is a tehsil and panchayat samiti with the same name. Bali is also a sub-divisions among the 10 sub-divisions of the Pali district. Bali is an ancient city. A Jain scroll which Colonel James Tod obtained from a Jain guru in Sanderao gives the earliest description of founding of Bali town. The scroll mentions that on the sack of Vallabhi city in Gujarat, thirty thousand Jain families abandoned Valabhi and led by their priests found a retreat for themselves in Marwar, where they erected the towns of Sandrao, Bali and Nadol in 524 AD. It was the heart of the Godwar area in the 11th century. It was also a town where regular horse fair was held to trade the horses. King Sarubali Baldev won the land of Bali in a battle in 1240 AD and he crowned the area his royal capital, naming it Bali after himself. Legends say that the Pandava children used to play childhood games in this area and a water well still exists which was formed by Bhima, one of the Pandavas. In 1608 AD King Balasingh constructed the Fort of Bali to protect the city and a wall was built around the city edges to protect it from attack. The town planning is based on ancient geometrical, astrological and architectural laws. The marriage of Rana Udai Singh, father of legendary hero Maharana Pratap, was solemnized with the daughter of the Rao of Jalor at Bali. A dispensary was established in this town in March 1896. In 1897, it served 17 in-patients and 4166 out-patients and 318 operations were performed in it. In 1900 there was a plague outbreak in town and the town was evacuated. 1245 deaths occurred during the month of January 1900 as a result of diarrhoea, dysentery and pneumonia. Prior to formation of Rajasthan it was headquarters of a district with same name in erstwhile Jodhpur state. Bali had its own municipality even before independence. It had a middle school in 1932 that was upgraded to high school and in 1946 had more than 200 pupils. In 1960 Bali had three primary schools for boys, one primary school for girls and a high school. The telephone arrived in Bali in 1957, it got electricity in 1961 and piped water connections were given in 1970. A tehsil library was established in the center of Bali in Bawari Jav in 1958. In addition Bali also has a Jain library.
