Special ed group criticizes Ohio governor's budget . COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Gov. Ted Strickland's budget proposal shortchanges special education by using a faulty funding formula, cutting vital programs and relying too heavily on one-time federal stimulus money, advocates said. Strickland's education funding model doesn't account for the cost of additional teacher time needed to instruct children with learning disabilities, the Ohio Coalition for the Education of Children with Disabilities said in a letter sent Monday to the Strickland administration and state lawmakers. Strickland's two-year budget proposal cuts all budget earmarks — including a $1.5 million program to mentor parents of special needs students. It replaces a significant share of the state's funding responsibility for special education with federal economic stimulus money, an apparent violation of federal mandates that would require a waiver, said coalition Executive Director Margaret Burley. "I'm still puzzled," Burley said Friday. "There seems to be a big emphasis on early childhood learning but not for children with disabilities." The Strickland administration has acknowledged that the funding formula is a problem that needs to be resolved. "Quite frankly, we believe this is a valid criticism of the proposal," said John Stanford, Strickland's education adviser. "We are still in conversation with the coalition about the issue." Both Burley and state Rep. Ron Amstutz, the ranking Republican on the House Finance and Appropriations Committee, said it has been difficult to get information about the school funding formula from the Strickland administration. "People are allowed to make mistakes. We just want them to get corrected," said Burley, who's optimistic the formula will be revised. The state is spending $470.5 million in the fiscal year ending in June on special education funding — all state money. Strickland has proposed an increase of $56 million for the next fiscal year, but the state's share of the funding would drop to 58 percent because of the federal stimulus money. This would appear to require a waiver from the federal government because the state is generally required to maintain its funding for special education, Amstutz and Burley said. Stanford said the federal government has not yet given clearance for the state's proposed use of stimulus money. "We will continue to work with the U.S. Department of Education to make sure that the program that we have developed in the state of Ohio is compliant with all federal rules," he said. Advocates and Republican lawmakers are also concerned that the reliance on federal money would create funding gaps in the future. "I think we owe it to them to look further than the next meal of federal funds because we don't have any reason to expect that to continue," said Amstutz, of Wooster. Burley said the special education community also continues to be upset about what has been a longtime defect in allocating money to programs. The funding model assumes a base teacher salary for preschool special education of $17,500 — the figure that was pertinent in 1989. Strickland's new "evidence-based" funding model for all education assumes an average teacher salary of about $45,000. Burley said the lagging salary number for preschool special education has decreased the share of state spending over time, forcing local districts to make up the difference. "Preschool kids are where we can make the most gains," Burley said. "The evidence shows they are ready to learn and we have to give them the building blocks they need to continue their education."