Killer asks Ohio court to delay execution . A convicted killer scheduled to die next month has asked the Ohio Supreme Court to delay his execution, alleging that a jailhouse informant committed perjury. Brett Hartmann said a motion filed Friday that he needs time to gather evidence of the alleged perjury and test other evidence he says will prove his innocence. The motion also asks the court to delay the execution to allow Hartmann time to demonstrate that Ohio's method of lethal injection is unconstitutional. He has said that it would deny him a quick and painless death as required by state law. The state Supreme Court this month denied an earlier request by Hartmann to delay his execution so he could challenge the state's execution method. Hartmann had asked for that stay to allow time for him to join a lawsuit pending in Franklin County that makes a similar challenge. Hartmann is scheduled to die April 7 for the fatal stabbing and mutilation of 46-year-old Wanda Snipes in Akron on Sept. 9, 1997. Documents and legal filings in the case refer to the inmate as Hartman, but he has said his name is Hartmann. The filing Friday said the state has repeatedly referred to the informant's testimony as critical evidence of Hartmann's guilt. The new evidence severely undermines the informant's credibility and casts doubt on the validity of the conviction, Hartmann's motion said. His motion also referred to testimony presented March 23 in a federal trial in Ohio that is part of another condemned inmate's challenge to the lethal injection process. The judge in the federal case is taking testimony from Ohio's execution team to determine whether condemned killer Kenneth Biros can prove he has a chance of making a successful argument against injection in a longer and more detailed trial. Hartmann's motion said testimony given in the federal court case provided evidence to demonstrate that Ohio's execution method carries "substantial risk of harm, i.e. excruciating pain during the execution." It would be "particularly unfair and inhumane" to execute Hartmann within days of the first time that testimony became available to him and to the public, Hartmann's motion said. Hartmann has said he must be given the same opportunity as other death row inmates to challenge the constitutionality of Ohio's execution method.