Restaurateur to give Southridge venture another shot. SOUTH CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Restaurateur Bill Sohovich is giving Southridge another go, but this time he's opening slowly and more deliberately. Billy's opened and closed at Southridge over about a four-month period last year. "We made some mistakes and we know we did," Sohovich said. "My daughter and I and my wife analyzed these. We're starting over again up there. We're starting very slowly, to get our feet on the ground." Sohovich owns Soho's in Capitol Market and Blossom Deli downtown. The short-lived Billy's served comfort food - items like chicken and dumplings and meatloaf. "From the time we closed we've gotten all kinds of feedback," Sohovich said. "The common thread was, people wanted a little bit better food up there. They expect more from Bill Sohovich than home-cooked food." The new venture, Billy's Soho's @ Southridge, opened about two weeks ago. It is in the former Smokey Bones location near Olive Garden. "What we're doing now is, we're going to keep some of the old and bring some new in," Sohovich said. "We'll broaden our menu. We have trout, oysters Rockefeller and some fillets. We've kept some of the Billy's favorites - chicken and dumplings, meatloaf and ribs. "Every day we're adding new menu items," he said. "By the middle of next week we should have everything we're going to serve on the menu available. We want to take it one day, one step at a time, and make sure our feet are firmly planted on the ground." "We got away from lunch," he said. "We're going to concentrate on the dinner entree business and the sports bar aspect. We have a full bar and an upgraded wine list." The restaurant is open from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Monday through Friday, noon to 10 p.m. Saturday; and noon to 9 p.m. Sunday. "Absolutely great people who worked there before are in there now helping me," Sohovich said. He praised his bankers, United Bank Charleston Market President Julie Gurtis and her assistant, David Mills, as well as his Southridge landlord, Lee Rashid. "These people have made it possible with the financing, the rent - they've given me the opportunity to get this restaurant back up and running," Sohovich said. "They're truly trying to help me put everything back together. "Every one of the purveyors has been a gentleman and has been working with me," he added. "I could have taken Billy's into bankruptcy. But I live in this community. I am a man of my word. These people are going to get paid back."