Roads in rough shape. â Itâ s not even traffic,â noted Douglas County Public Works Director Dave Robley. â Itâ s the freezing thatâ s the enemy. â Robley said that County Road 35, which is north of Alexandria near Lake Vermont, is closed because of water issues. He noted this is a seasonal issue that happens almost every year. In addition, water has caused a portion of County Road 56 to wash out. This road is located west of County Road 15, southwest of Brandon. Lastly, a culvert on County Road 96 is washed out, closing a portion of the road, which is located northeast of Kensington by Freeborn Lake. â Right now, these are the only three [county] roads that are closed,â said Robley. He asked that motorists use caution when driving around the county and if there is water flowing over the road, motorists should not drive on it. If there is standing water, he said proceed with caution. With Tuesdayâ s storm dumping even more snow on the area, Robley said public works will keep a close eye on area roads, but he said that depending on the conditions, he wasnâ t too concerned. Another road in pretty bad shape â “ probably the worst shape of any in the county, said Robley â “ is County Road 42. The road is scheduled for a major overhaul this spring, so for right now, the county is patching as needed to keep it together. â We are doing what we can to keep it safe,â said Robley. He noted the utility work for the project should start in April and the actual roadwork should begin shortly after that. He also mentioned there are plenty of other roads around the county with potholes or other problems that the public works department is working on, which he said is a normal occurrence this time of year. Robley added the roads may seem to be in worse shape this year because of the colder than normal temperatures. He reiterated that the amount of snow doesnâ t make as big of an impact as the cold temperatures. A wet fall helped drive the frost deeper, which wreaks havoc on roads. The county didnâ t use anymore salt or sand than it usually does, added Robley. Throughout the spring and summer months, the public works department will continue its maintenance of area roads â “ repairing, patching and crack sealing, as needed.