New policy restricts some transfer students from playing high school sports. Kanawha County high school students will have to sit out a year of sports if they transfer from one county school to another after the start of their ninth grade year, school board members decided. At a tense and combative meeting Thursday night, the board approved the plan aimed at eliminating the recruiting of high school athletes. Board members say behavior by some coaches, boosters and parents are ruining community schools, promoting unsportsmanlike conduct and overshadowing academics. School officials are trying to correct what they said was a loophole in country policy. To get around a yearlong sports ban that applied to students who transferred from one school district to another, parents were renting apartments, moving into other family members' homes or changing custody of their children to prove they had "moved." That exempted the students from the ban. After Thursday's vote, any Kanawha County student who switches high schools after the start of their ninth-grade year, for any reason, can't play sports for a year. The last chance to transfer without facing the ban is as an incoming freshman, right out of middle school. Board members signed off on the change with the caveat that they might soon consider additional restrictions, including requiring transfer students to keep a higher grade point average to play sports. The board had voted down a more stringent transfer policy earlier Thursday. That proposal would have barred any student in middle school and high school from playing sports for a year if he or she either changed schools or started as a new student in the county. It would have applied even to students who moved with their families from another county or state. Steve Hurley told the board he was recently laid off from his job at American Woodmark. He said he planned to move from Grant County to Nitro with his family to find work. "And now, all of the sudden, the kids don't want to move because they want to play sports," he said. "We're trying to move four hours to better our family and the school system says, 'No, you can't do that,'" Hurley said. Board members Jim Crawford and Bill Raglin voted for that stricter policy. But board president Becky Jordon and board members Pete Thaw and Robin Rector voted it down. Jordon then attempted to build consensus for the compromise plan. In a 3-2 vote, the board approved the less strict policy change. Crawford and Raglin voted against it, saying it was not strong enough. Raglin specifically argued that the final policy still has too much potential for loopholes. He said students are being recruited and lured to schools to play sports and provide entertainment for fans, and then they are abandoned academically. "I'm here to represent the concerns of the students whose parents aren't concerned," Raglin said. He said data given to him by Superintendent Ron Duerring show that high school athletes who transfer schools perform worse academically than other transfer students. Raglin suggested requiring a GPA of 2.5 or above for student athletes who transfer from one county school to another. The current GPA requirement is 2.0 for all student athletes. "A 2.0 GPA guarantees one thing: consideration for a job, maybe at McDonald's," he said. But Kackie Eller, a guidance counselor at George Washington High School, said some of the proposed restrictions could spell "the end of school sports as we know them." She said students are increasingly turning to athletic programs outside of school, especially church league basketball, to avoid confusing eligibility rules now in place. Eller raised concern that some of the proposed policy changes would punish many students because of the actions of the few. "I don't understand why they can't just come down on the coaches," she said. "The failure of this system has been our failure," Thaw said. "We've allowed the overzealous coaches. We've allowed the indiscriminate boosters." Several board members suggested that whatever policy they adopted, they would be willing to hear appeals and grant exceptions in some cases.