South Charleston to get carbon capture pilot plant. The Dow Chemical Co. announced that French engineering company Alstom will build a pilot plant to capture carbon dioxide from the flue gas at Dow's coal-fired power plant in South Charleston. The companies said Alstom will design, construct and operate the pilot plant and Dow will provide the site, the utilities and the chemicals. The plant will use amine technology jointly developed by Alstom and Dow. Amines are organic compounds. Gov. Joe Manchin said, "We're tickled to death they're coming here. This is research that we think has an awful lot of promise. If we could retrofit coal-fired plants, what a break that is. "It seems that chemists have found things that can drop carbon out of the stack. We think this could be the key that unlocks the future of how we'll be able to deal with the carbon that's coming off of existing coal-fired power plants." Jim Guidarini, Dow's West Virginia site leader, said the South Charleston power plant has the only coal-fired boiler owned by Dow Chemical in the United States. The power plant has three boilers -- two that burn natural gas and one that burns coal. The pilot plant will test the Alstom-Dow amine carbon capture process on the coal-fired boiler's flue gas. Work on the pad for the pilot plant began several weeks ago, Guidarini said. About 20 construction workers will be on site at the height of construction. "We expect construction to be done in another couple of months," he said. The plant is expected to begin operating by the third quarter of this year. Alstom then will have five people on site to operate it. "We expect it to run for two years," Guidarini said. "It depends on what we learn. That's why we're doing a pilot -- to learn things." Asked about the plant's price tag, Guidarini said, "We're not releasing any cost information on it." "The way the amine process works is, you scrub the carbon dioxide out of the vent stream with the amines," Guidarini said. "You have a reactive product. Then you get the carbon dioxide off and you have pure carbon dioxide. The idea going forward in large plants is, you sequester the carbon dioxide somehow. In this plant we're just testing the first piece -- how do you capture the carbon dioxide, how do you get it off the amines?" The carbon dioxide that is captured will be released, he said. "The problem with carbon dioxide is, it's tough to use," said. "It's not very reactive. It's a hard feedstock to do anything with. You don't hear of anybody doing anything with carbon dioxide because it's tough to do. But that's something Dow in the future is certainly looking at." Manchin said, "The money will be in the research to figure out what you do with the carbon. It's like when we burned coal and had refuse piles. Then they captured sulfur with a limestone spray and had another byproduct. Now they're using that byproduct to make gypsum board. There's got to be a way to solidify carbon and use it for fuel." The cost of removing carbon dioxide is considered an energy loss, since the energy needed for the process is subtracted from that generated by a power plant. Guidarini said Dow believes its proprietary amines technology is much less energy intensive than other processes. The pilot plant will capture about 1,800 tons of carbon dioxide a year. This is the second carbon capture project to be announced in West Virginia. The other project is much larger. Alstom, American Electric Power and German utility conglomerate RWE are building it at American Electric's Mountaineer power plant in Mason County. American Electric is investing about $76 million in the Mason County project, which is designed to capture about 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide annually. Alstom has said that research shows its technology may only cause an energy loss of 10 percent. In addition to capturing carbon dioxide, the Mason County project will chill it to a liquid using Alstom's Chilled Ammonia Process. The liquid will be permanently stored underground. American Electric is working with subcontractor Battelle Memorial Institute on the storage system. The Mason County project is expected to begin operating in September.