Hotel project on, Tri-State vows. CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Officials at Tri-State Racetrack & Gaming Center say they intend to proceed with a $250 million expansion project at the Kanawha County track and casino despite bad economic conditions that have hit the gambling industry particularly hard. Dan Adkins, vice president of Hartman & Tyner Inc., which owns the facility in Nitro, said he met with Gov. Joe Manchin on Thursday to talk about the track's future and assure state officials that he intended to make good on promises to build a hotel and entertainment complex at the track. "I'm not coming with my hat off and my hand out," Adkins said Friday. He said he does not intend to ask state lawmakers to push back deadlines for a table-gaming referendum and the construction timetable at the track and casino. John Melton, attorney for the West Virginia Lottery Commission, said recently that the 2007 law allowing the expansion of table games requires the hotel to be up and running at Tri-State by the August 2010 deadline, not merely under construction. If Tri-State's owners fail to complete the hotel in time, they face a $2.5 million annual penalty until the hotel is open. With ground unbroken, no architect yet announced for the project and time running out, state and county officials are beginning to wonder whether Tri-State will be able to make the deadline. "I think Tri-State has publicly committed to build a hotel, and will build it," said Kanawha County Commission President Kent Carper, who said he has watched the progress of Tri-State's plans closely. "If they don't, the penalty is pretty unpleasant for them. They said they'd build it, and they need to build it," Carper said, but conceded that the hotel might not be finished in time to meet the deadline. "To me, it wouldn't be the end of the world if it were delayed a year," he said. "I just want to see it built." When the Legislature passed the law allowing local voters to approve the expansion of gambling to include table games such as poker and blackjack, the law required a vote after another five years so voters could decide if they wanted table gaming to continue. The law also required Tri-State to build a hotel. The state's other racetracks already have hotels at their facilities. Kanawha County voters approved table gaming at Tri-State Racetrack in August 2007. Carper said Adkins has had considerable trouble finding financing for the proposed $250 million expansion at Tri-State. The project includes a hotel of at least 200 rooms, a conference center and entertainment complex. "You can't blame everything on Tri-State," Carper said. "It's not their fault the economy is in the tank." The pain is being felt across the gambling industry. Last year, Tropicana Entertainment LLC, which runs the Tropicana Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, filed for bankruptcy. The company that runs Donald Trump's casino empire filed for bankruptcy in February. Herbst Gambling Inc., which operates a casino in Iowa, two more in Missouri and 12 in Nevada, announced plans to file for bankruptcy last week, according to the Des Moines Register newspaper. Carper said he was told that Adkins intended to ask state officials to push back the deadline on the table-gaming referendum to make it easier to secure financing for the project. With the referendum on table games looming, Carper said, investors or banking officials probably will be reluctant to loan a lot of money on a project that voters might decide they don't want anymore. " [Extending the deadline] will assist them in getting financing," Carper said. Adkins acknowledges that times are hard and it has been tough to finance the expansion project, but he said he would not ask state officials to push back any deadlines for the track. "We don't file bankruptcy," Adkins said. "We're going to proceed with what we said we're going to do, with our own money." Matt Turner, spokesman for Gov. Manchin, confirmed that Adkins met with the governor Thursday to discuss "the future of the racetrack." He said Manchin was "encouraged" by the conversation. Adkins said he hoped to pick an architect for the expansion project on Friday.