Obama signs protections for Mon Forest acreage. CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Lewisburg Mayor John Manchester on Monday had a bird's-eye view of President Obama signing into law a bill granting wilderness protection to more than 2 million acres of land, including 37,771 acres in the Monongahela National Forest. "For some reason, they stuck me in the second row," Manchester said after the signing. "It was a wonderful ceremony, and I got to shake the president's hand and meet a lot of the congressional leaders." Manchester was among about 150 supporters of various pieces of the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009 who were invited to attend the bill-signing ceremony at the White House. The legislation protects tracts of federally managed land in nine states, from Oregon to Virginia. Rep. Nick Rahall, D-W. Va., chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee and a longtime backer of the legislation, was among 13 U.S. senators and representatives in attendance, along with Interior Secretary Ken Salazar. "As Americans, we possess few blessings greater than the vast and varied landscapes that stretch the breadth of our continent," Obama said. The new law, he added, guarantees that Americans "will not take our forests, rivers, oceans, national parks, monuments and wilderness areas for granted, but rather we will set them aside and guard their sanctity for everyone to share. That's something all Americans can support." In West Virginia, the Wild Monongahela Act, which was a component of the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act, creates three new wilderness areas in the Monongahela National Forest, and adds acreage to three existing wilderness areas. The new areas are the 6,280-acre Roaring Plains West Wilderness, which abuts the existing Dolly Sods Wilderness east of Canaan Valley; the 7,142-acre Spice Run Wilderness on the east slope of the Greenbrier River Valley near the Greenbrier-Pocahontas County boundary; and the 5,242-acre Big Draft Wilderness along Anthony Creek at the extreme south end of the Monongahela near Lewisburg. The act also added 7,215 acres to the north end of the Dolly Sods Wilderness; 12,032 acres between the Williams and Cranberry rivers in the Cranberry Wilderness; and 740 acres near the Dry Fork River to the Otter Creek Wilderness. Manchester was among wilderness supporters who testified before Rahall's committee last year. "I spoke on the value of wilderness to my community," he said. "There are a lot of tourists who love to explore wild places, and as soon as these new wilderness areas are on the map, we'll have another arrow in our quiver for our marketing campaign. I expect the new wilderness areas will give the state a significant bump in its tourism base." Elsewhere in the nation, the act added nearly 50,000 acres of wilderness to Virginia's Jefferson National Forest, and granted wilderness protection to land along Mount Hood's northeastern slopes in Oregon, to the Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore in Michigan, in Utah's Zion National Park and in Rocky Mountain National Park in Colorado.