W.Va. Democrat volunteer Holroyd dies at 74. CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Emilie Holroyd, a longtime fixture in West Virginia Democratic politics and a frequent representative of her state at the party's national conventions, has died at age 74. Derek Scarbro, executive director of the state Democratic Party, said Holroyd died Monday at Princeton Community Hospital following a long, undisclosed illness. Holroyd served various posts within the state party over the years, including as national committeewoman. "She was always in the fray and in the thick of things," state party chairman Nick Casey said Monday. "Emilie spent her entire life working tirelessly for what she believed in. This loss is not only a loss to Mercer County, but to our West Virginia Democratic Party and our entire state, as well," Casey said. U.S. Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, both D-W. Va., each called Holroyd a dear friend. Byrd recalled her compelling personality and extraordinary networking skills. Rockefeller said Holroyd was a tireless volunteer and role model. Byrd said of Holroyd, "She was a partisan out of principle, and she served her party, state and nation with intellect, passion and great good humor. She knew and worked for presidents, senators, congressmen, governors and state legislators, but she also knew county officials and poll workers and others who labor behind the scenes to get things done." Gov. Joe Manchin said he's never met anyone more passionate about her family, her beliefs and her community than Holroyd. "The truth is that we did not always agree, but I have to tell you that I liked it much better when we did," Manchin said. "Emilie had such strong devotion, and she was respected by all who knew her. Our thoughts go out to her husband, Bob, and the many loved ones as they go through this difficult time." CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- Emilie Holroyd, a longtime fixture in West Virginia Democratic politics and a frequent representative of her state at the party's national conventions, has died at age 74.