Taco Bell killer pleads guilty. CHARLESTON, W.Va. -- A Charleston man admitted in Kanawha Circuit Court on Monday that he gunned down his longtime girlfriend in a West Side Taco Bell in July 2008. Desmond Demetrius Clark, 22, pleaded guilty to first-degree murder, saying he shot Na'lisha Gravely, 19, with whom he had a son. "I shot 'Lisha in the Taco Bell," Clark said. "I later learned that she died from it." As part of the plea deal, prosecutors agreed to drop two wanton endangerment charges and a kidnapping charge against Clark. Clark, who had a lengthy history of domestic violence against Gravely, followed her into the Patrick Street restaurant, where she had apparently fled from him during an argument. Video surveillance appeared to show Clark hopping the counter moments before he fired into the closet where Gravely was hiding. Chief Kanawha Circuit Judge Jim Stucky accepted Clark's plea, and set his sentencing for June 2. Both sides are free to call witnesses and argue whether or not Clark's life sentence should come with a recommendation of mercy, meaning that he could eventually be paroled. Clark was captured following a brief manhunt. His arrest and subsequent murder charges set off an uproar, in part because of his extensive criminal history and in part because he was subject of a domestic violence protective order taken out by Gravely when he killed her. Clark turned and quietly said "I love you" to his supporters before he was led out of the courtroom. Gravely's family and friends left the courtroom without talking to reporters. After the hearing, Plants said he was pleased with the conviction and that he plans to ask Stucky to send Clark to prison for the rest of his life. "The facts of this case are just brutal. He shot her in broad daylight. He admitted it," Plants said. Clark told Stucky that his son now lives with Gravely's family. Defense attorney Theresa Chisolm said Clark wanted to accept responsibility for his actions. Plants said Gravely's tragic murder brought additional attention to the issue of domestic violence. "Women who are in the cycle of abuse need to get out of the cycle," he said. Earlier this month, the state Supreme Court touted the launch of its electronic domestic violence registry, which gives police officers statewide electronic access to domestic violence protective orders like the one a Kanawha County Family Court judge issued to Gravely on May 28, 2008. According to that order, Clark and Gravely were not supposed to be around each other until Aug. 28, 2008, a few days after she would have turned 20. A Dunbar police officer pulled over a car driven by Clark with Gravely in the passenger seat on the day of the murder, but, apparently unaware of the protective order, he ticketed Clark for driving on a suspended license and for having a small amount of marijuana. Clark was on probation at the time, having been sentenced by Stucky to two years probation in March 2008 for felony possession with intent to distribute and several misdemeanors. The domestic violence registry is now up and running in 14 counties, but those do not yet include Kanawha County, Supreme Court administrative director Steve Canterbury said Monday. A bailiff leads Desmond Clark out of the courtroom following his guilty plea Monday. Clark admitted that he shot and killed Na'lisha Gravely, the mother of his child, in a West Side Taco Bell in 2008.