House rejects attempt to force vote on marriage amendment. On Monday, Republicans in the House of Delegates tried to advance a bipartisan resolution that would define marriage in the state constitution, but the Democratic majority blocked their attempts. The "Marriage Protection Amendment" resolution (HJR5) introduced last month calls for a statewide referendum on whether to amend the constitution to define marriage as between one man and one woman. The measure has been stuck in the House Constitutional Revision Committee. On Monday, House Minority Leader Tim Armstead tried bring the resolution to the floor for a vote by moving to discharge it from committee. "The overwhelming majority of West Virginians have let us know in no uncertain terms they want us to take action on this issue," the Kanawha County Republican said, adding that 30 other states have approved constitutional amendments on marriage. "It's time for us to listen to the people we represent." Since 2000, West Virginia has had a Defense of Marriage Act, which bars the state from recognizing same-sex marriages performed elsewhere. But Armstead said recent events in other states dictated the state should amend its constitution. "I think we've seen over the past few years why it's so urgent," he said. He pointed to legal challenges to Proposition 8 in California and the recognition of gay marriage in Massachusetts. "This is an urgent issue," Armstead said. "It's an issue that needs to be addressed. It's an issue we feel very strongly about." But the House voted 67-30 -- almost entirely along party lines -- to postpone Armstead's motion indefinitely, meaning the resolution can't be considered again this session. Delegates also passed a motion to cut off debate on the issue. The only comments from Democrats came from House Majority Leader Brent Boggs, D-Braxton, a sponsor of the resolution. Boggs said the legislative process had to take precedence over delegates' personal feelings on the issue. "It's not good public policy to bypass the committee process," he said, reading from a prepared speech. Besides Armstead and Boggs, other sponsors of the resolution are Delegates Harold Michael, D-Hardy; Ricky Moye, D-Raleigh; John Overington, R-Berkeley; Linda Sumner, R-Raleigh; and Clif Moore, D-McDowell. Earlier this month, a telephone campaign by the Family Policy Council of West Virginia targeted House Judiciary Chairwoman Carrie Webster, D-Kanawha, and House Constitutional Revision Chairwoman Barbara Fleischauer, D-Monongalia. The council claimed the two delegates were blocking a ban on gay marriage, since their committees would have to approve the resolution. Webster, whose committee never saw the bill, said the campaign led to the harassment of her staff.