Columbia will have to pay firm for hotel. A judge ruled Monday that Columbia taxpayers owe design firm Stevens & Wilkinson money for a publicly funded hotel the city never built. The Columbia-based design firm says the city owes it $1.6 million for work it completed on a publicly funded convention center hotel project from December 2003 to April 2004. Two weeks ago, city attorneys rejected a $1.6 million settlement offer from Stevens & Wilkinson, saying the two entities never had a contract. Monday, Circuit Court Judge Casey Manning ruled the city did have a contract with Stevens & Wilkinson but did not rule if or how much money the city had to pay. That question will be settled later, in front of either a jury or a judge. But it means city taxpayers likely will have to pay something at a time when the city is furloughing its employees and cutting $4 million in order to make its budget this year. It’s unclear if the city will appeal the decision. Kathleen McDaniel, an attorney with Callison Tighe & Robinson, which represents the city, said Monday night she had not had time to review the order and declined to comment. “This ruling is a dramatic development on behalf of Stevens & Wilkinson,” said attorney Dick Harpootlian, who represents the design firm. “They owe us something, the amount to be determined.” Manning’s order, known as a partial summary judgment, is rare for a plaintiff, the party who brings the lawsuit, said John Nichols, past president of the S.C. Trial Lawyers Association, now known as the S.C. Association for Justice. “The plaintiff always has the burden of proof and the burden of production to start a lawsuit off,” Nichols said. It’s more likely that a defendant would win summary judgment, he said. In issuing his order, Manning cited the deposition testimony of three people: interim city manager Steve Gantt, Councilwoman Tameika Isaac Devine and Charles Phillips, an expert hired by the city. Further testimony is expected before it is determined what the city owes. Devine, an attorney, is the only council member to give a deposition so far. Attorneys for the city have asked Manning to prevent other council members from testifying on the grounds of legislative privilege — the legal doctrine that prevents public officials from being asked to explain their votes. In 2003, the city decided it would build and operate a hotel across from the Columbia Metropolitan Convention Center. City Council hired Stevens & Wilkinson, Turner Construction, Gary Realty and Garfield Traub Development to work on the project. All the parties signed a memorandum of understanding. However, in April 2004, after considerable public opposition to the project, City Council voted to give $4.5 million for a private developer — Bo Aughtry — to build the hotel, a Hilton, which opened in August 2007. In 2005, the four companies that had worked on the public hotel project sued the city, saying the city’s memorandum of understanding was a contract, and by going with a privately developed hotel, the city broke that contract. The companies are asking for the money the city would have paid them had the public hotel project gone forward. Monday’s ruling does not affect the status of the other companies; their portion of the lawsuit is still pending. “This is the first of what we hope will be a lot of dominoes to fall,” said attorney Brink Hinson, who represents Gary Realty and Garfield Traub Development. Stevens & Wilkinson is asking for an additional $1.6 million for work it says it completed on the project from December 2003 to April 2004. In July 2003, after working three months on the project, Stevens & Wilkinson said they were stopping their work until the city could borrow the money to pay for the hotel. Stevens & Wilkinson offered to continue working on the hotel project for $650,000 through Oct. 15, 2003, and $75,000 a week after that. City Council members approved this deal, and on Dec. 13, 2003, paid Stevens & Wilkinson $697,084.79 — which lead Manning to write: “Thus the three tenants of contract have been established: offer, acceptance and valuable consideration.”