Greer, South Carolina . The city offers beautiful scenery with vistas that include both mountains and lakes. Families and young professionals have also discovered the city's first- rate services, outstanding park facilities and recreation programs, and big- city amenities while preserving a small- town feel. Spanning more than 20 square miles, Greer's city limits to the north offer outdoor recreation at Lake Robinson, Lake Cunningham, and Apalache Lake, while the city's southern boundary includes a major transportation corridor with Interstate 85 and the Greenville- Spartanburg International Airport. Downtown Greer, known locally as Greer Station, has become a destination in itself with approximately 12 square blocks of retail, dining, entertainment, and professional service organizations. Greer Station has more than 40 buildings on the National Historic Register. Greer Station took on a new look in 2008 as new municipal facilities opened to serve the public. A two- story Police and Court Complex anchors the west boundary of Greer Station, while the new three- story Greer City Hall and 12- acre City Park are just two blocks to the east. City Hall includes an entire floor dedicated to public space, with a 4,500- square- foot events hall available for conventions, receptions, and galas. Just steps from the events hall, City Park includes a large fountain timed to music, an amphitheater for public concerts and ceremonies, walking trails, a picnic shelter, a pond, and ample green space for family fun. The city's events staff keeps City Park the center of recreation in Greer, planning concerts and family festivals throughout the year. The 2009 Fourth of July Celebration at City Park July 4- 5 will offer a weekend of music and fireworks not to be missed. Highway 29 extends from Greenville to Spartanburg and passes just north of Greer's main business district. However, you will find nearly anything you may want on that stretch of highway in Greer. From fast food or fine dining to charming boutiques and chain department stores, it is a vibrant commercial corridor in the city. Home to the nation's only BMW manufacturing plant, which offers public tours departing from an informative visitor's center, Greer also has been home to the Michelin North America main headquarters for almost a quarter of a century.