West Columbia City Council calls special meeting . Mayor Bobby E. Horton called the Special Council Meeting of the West Columbia Council to order on Monday, March 16, 2009 at 6 pm. All members were present: Mayor Bobby E. Horton, Mayor Pro- Tem Tommy G. Parler, Eric L. Fowler, L. Dale Harley, Jack L. Harmon, Boyd J. Jones, Marsha J. Moore, Cathy Shannon and B.J. Unthank. John Banks, director of tourism with the West Metro Chamber of Commerce spoke on the various ways the chamber is promoting the area. Among other points, Banks said that special emphasis would be given to improving West Metro's brochures and encouraging business travelers to stay in West Columbia hotels. Additionally, Banks told council that the chamber was working to redesign its ads at the Columbia Metropolitan Airport. Banks said that a frequent complaint from visitors was that the ads at the airport were difficult to read. Banks added that the chamber would be promoting the West Columbia area's whitewater rafting opportunities. He reminded council that visitors can go whitewater rafting in the morning and see a play in Columbia that evening. Councilman Harley said he was particularly impressed with this idea. Banks also announced that the chamber was completely redesigning its website. Banks said that Splash Omnimedia of Lexington, South Carolina has been hired for the job. Mayor Horton said the city of West Columbia had received a grant from the state to assist in domestic violence evidence collection. The mayor reminded council members of their upcoming budget meetings. First reading unanimous approval was given to an ordinance that would move West Columbia city elections to the first Tuesday after the first Monday in odd- numbered years. Currently, the city holds elections on the first Tuesday in September on those years. Mayor Horton pointed out the reason for the ordinance was to align the city with other municipalities in Lexington County and to encourage voter turnout, as most voters are used to casting their ballots in November. Unanimous approval was given to a resolution authorizing the mayor to award contracts to the lowest responsive, responsible bidders to improve the city's water and sewer system contingent upon authorization by SRF Authority. Tom Bowlers with AECOM addressed council briefly on the matter and responding to a question from Councilman Fowler said the work on the city's water and sewer system would likely begin in about 30 to 45 days, once the credentials and qualifications of the subcontractors have been examined and additional documents had been received. Unanimous approval was given to a resolution authorizing the consumption of beer and wine in cups at the Riverwalk Music Festival and the Rhythm on the River Concert Series at the Riverwalk Amphitheatre. Mayor Horton strongly emphasized that beer and wine consumption would only be allowed at the Riverwalk Amphitheatre during those specific events.