Lawrenceburg to host Senior Olympics in April. LAWRENCEBURG — It’s once again time for the Tennessee Senior Olympics state competition, and more than 3,500 Tennessee senior athletes are gearing up in preparation. Area seniors ages 50 and older will have the opportunity to showcase their athletic abilities and youthful spirit at the South Central District Senior Olympics, scheduled for April 20-24 in Lawrenceburg. Individuals will compete within five-year age groups, starting at age 50. Participants who are 49 years old are eligible to participate in the district and state games as long as their 50th birthday occurs before the end of 2009. Events include a health and fitness walk, shuffleboard, basketball free throw, softball throw, badminton, golf, track and field events, horseshoes, swimming, table tennis, tennis and bowling. Any athlete who participates at the South Central district may advance to state finals competition, July 17-23 in Williamson County. “By participating in the Tennessee Senior Olympics, seniors are making great strides in improving their health now and for the future,” Patric said. “Studies show that exercise is important for promoting quality of life in older adults.” Joining BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee as sponsors of the South Central District are South Central Tennessee Development District, Galaxy Lanes, Lawrenceburg Parks and Recreation and Shelbyville Recreation Center. “The Tennessee Senior Olympics has a 29-year history in our state,” said Christine Dewbre, executive director of the Tennessee Senior Olympics. “The district championships bring together athletes of all interests and skill levels as they compete for the opportunity to travel to Williamson County.” The deadline for registration is April 6. For information or an application, call Beth Campbell at (931) 762-4231, e-mail . BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee, presenting sponsor and a long-time supporter of the Tennessee Senior Olympics, helped establish the games in 1981. The event seeks to promote healthy lifestyles for senior adults through fitness, sports and an active involvement in life. According to Dr. Ken Patric, chief medical officer for BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee, adopting a healthy lifestyle generates many benefits, from improved cardiovascular endurance to muscle strength and increased flexibility.