Weatherizing homes to create thousands of jobs - if stimulus works. "We want them to go through Ohio as deeply and as widely as possible," said Phil Cole of the Ohio Association of Community Action Agencies. The state expects to receive $267 million to insulate, seal and otherwise improve home energy efficiency for thousands of low-income Ohioans over the next three years. Cole said the government spent less than that on weatherization programs for all 50 states last year. "What we're being asked to do has never been done before," said Cole, who speaks for the anti-poverty organizations that will do most of the work. "There's no pattern to follow." But there is an ideal path, which supporters describe in one-thing-leads-to-another terms: Agencies hire weatherization workers or contract with small businesses, creating jobs. They also buy trucks, insulation supplies, furnaces and water heaters, boosting the local economy. Residents' utility costs drop by an average of 30 percent, saving money and energy. Heating subsidies for the poor cost taxpayers less, and families spend the extra cash. "This thing has so many opportunities for mischief and mismanagement," said Leslie Paige, spokeswoman for Citizens Against Government Waste, a taxpayer watchdog organization based in Washington, D.C. "It's very vulnerable to fraud." She said the pot is too large and the ramp-up time too short for small community-action agencies to manage. "You're taking a sleepy little program and you're going to ram $5 billion at it, and on top of that you're going to say it has to be spent as quickly as possible," Paige said. "It's a recipe for disaster." Some also question whether the program really can put more than 87,000 Americans to work, as President Barack Obama asserts. No one expects it to be easy, said Bill Graves of the Ohio Department of Development. Ohio received about $30 million in federal money for weatherization in 2008, so the stimulus money represents an increase of almost 800 percent. "What are my worries? I wouldn't say worries; I'd say optimistic concerns," he said. "This is a lot of money. It's a monumental task." Pat Williams says she's ready. As manager of the weatherization program at Impact Community Action Agency in Columbus, she could soon oversee a threefold increase in production. On a sunny, warm-for-March day last week, Williams had three crews of three working on drafty city homes. "I'll have three more crews in the next few weeks," she said. "When the stimulus hits, I plan to go to 16 to 20. This is going to make a tremendous difference in people's lives." Williams also is excited about the agency's ability to offer jobs with health insurance. She wants to hire as many people as possible, but Impact Executive Director Bo Chilton said the community-action agency doesn't want to create more positions than it can maintain. "We'd hate to take on 30 new staff and then lay them off in two years," he said. "So we'll probably be using contractors, too." Whether to create jobs or hire businesses can be a thorny issue for community-action agencies, most of whose missions include employment training. "They're both legitimate business models," said Dave Rinebolt, executive director of Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, an umbrella group for energy-assistance groups. "We anticipate plenty of jobs either way." Sean Babylon is thrilled to have one. The 32-year-old recently moved back to Columbus from Arkansas and badly wanted to return to Impact, where he had worked in weatherization before. He was surprised to learn that the agency could add employees. "It's a big weight off my shoulders," Babylon said. "I wake up and think, 'Wow. I have a job now.'" Home weatherization as a public program has its roots in New England during the energy crisis of the 1970s, said Rinebolt, who first worked in Minnesota. He watched support wither during the next two decades and eventually lost his job to budget cuts. The coming boom is an about-face like nothing he has ever seen. About 7,000 low-income Ohio homes usually are weatherized each year at a maximum per-unit cost of about $3,900. With the stimulus money, the program could reach 26,000 homes a year at up to $6,500 each.