Compromise required for transportation bill to pass. Ohio lawmakers voted almost completely in lockstep with their parties on a bill to provide billions of dollars for road projects, move forward with plans for passenger trains and toughen rules on drivers. Now they'll have to learn the art of the compromise. The House, controlled by Democrats, approved nearly all of Gov. Ted Strickland's two-year, $9.5 billion transportation budget, including controversial provisions green-lighting speed cameras in construction zones; a study of passenger rail service connecting Cleveland, Columbus, Dayton and Cincinnati; stronger enforcement of seat-belt laws; and solar- and wind-energy projects on the right-of-way along the Ohio Turnpike. The Senate, controlled by Republicans, wiped out nearly all of those provisions, although the train idea held on by a thread. Democrats say cameras to nab speeders in construction zones and enforcement of the seat-belt law as a primary offense meaning drivers can be ticketed even if it's their only violation will enhance public safety. Republicans say the changes are about money and infringe on personal freedom. Democrats say the rail plan would provide a new transportation option for Ohioans and stimulate economic development. Many Republicans say the idea hasn't been adequately researched and may not find enough riders. Democrats say the state owns plenty of unused land along the turnpike that could generate green energy. Republicans say the idea was too ill-defined for them to approve. Those disputes, and dozens of smaller differences between the House and Senate bills, now go to a bipartisan, six-member conference committee to iron out the differences. The committee is tasked with developing a final bill that both chambers will either accept or reject. Though once used regularly, conference committees became a far rarer occurrence in the past decade-plus, as members of the Republican-controlled legislature grew to view the committees as a failure of compromise. But with a new Democratic-controlled House and GOP-run Senate for the first time in 16 years, the conference committee should see a resurgence. "As a leader, you kind of want a bill to go conference committee because you have more control over it," said Sen. Jon Husted, a Kettering Republican who served four years as House speaker. The conference committee is scheduled to do its work today, Wednesday and Thursday if needed. It won't have time to dawdle: Strickland must sign the final compromise bill by March 31. The budget is for the 2010-11 fiscal years, which begin July 1, and the legislation doesn't take effect for 90 days. Conceivably, the conference committee could strip out the more controversial provisions such as the new driver rules and move forward on the rest of the bill. Scott Varner, a spokesman for the Ohio Department of Transportation, said it's been at least a quarter-century since the agency's budget wasn't approved by the March 31 deadline. Herb Asher, professor emeritus of political science at Ohio State University, said he doesn't expect partisan wrangling to doom the transportation budget this year. "You can't have endless stalemate," he said. "Transportation is very important to the state, very important to the economy." There could be horse-trading on some of the items; for example, Republicans could yield on the speed cameras in exchange for Democrats dumping the seat-belt provision. But Asher said it doesn't have to be that simple. "Conference committees have a substantial amount of power," he said. "You don't have to split the difference." Husted said it remains unknown how the new Statehouse political dynamics will play out. House Speaker Armond Budish, D-Beachwood, is new to the process and veteran Senate President Bill M. Harris, R-Ashland, has been out of Columbus for weeks with a badly broken leg. "What does happen will foreshadow how problems are solved with the operating budget, which is a far bigger issue," Husted said of that $54.4 billion two-year spending plan, which will be decided in June.