State falls short of spending targets for minority businesses. A state law on the books since 1980 requires agencies to set aside 15 percent of purchases for bidding by minority-owned businesses only. But total spending with minority companies in fiscal year 2008 was 3 percent of $2.3 billion. Purchases from companies participating in the Encouraging Diversity, Growth and Equity program, or EDGE, totaled 2.1 percent last year - while the goal in the state's administrative code since 2004 is 5 percent. "These numbers are staggering," said state Sen. Ray Miller, D-Columbus, a vocal advocate of compliance with minority-business participation goals. "It's unacceptable." Gov. Ted Strickland required the scorecard for the first time as part of an executive order he issued last June that sought better participation in the state's Minority Business Enterprise and EDGE programs. The idea was that requiring an annual measurement would spur better compliance, and the governor ordered other steps such as requiring each state agency to appoint an officer to monitor compliance. The scorecard for the 2008 fiscal year, which ended June 30, showed that only one of 22 cabinet agencies met the 15 percent spending goal for minority-owned businesses. Of the 12 reporting state colleges and universities, two met the goal, while six of the 58 state boards and commissions were in compliance. "The governor expects to see improvement in the future," spokeswoman Amanda Wurst said. "This scorecard certainly will provide us a baseline for improvements." Ron Sylvester, a spokesman for the Department of Administrative Services, said the state is working with agencies to identify missed opportunities for using minority or disadvantaged vendors and to find new vendors if necessary. State law says that if no bid is submitted by a minority-owned business for contracts set aside for such companies, the purchase is made according to usual procedures. Miller argued that the state must aggressively market opportunities to minority and disadvantaged companies, streamline the certification process for them and encourage majority contractors to subcontract with them. "We should see some change because I am certain the governor is going to give this the highest priority and strongly encourage his cabinet and all other agencies of state government to do much better than they have in the past," he said. Various statements have been made in previous administrations, both Democratic and Republican, about the need to increase contracts and state jobs for minorities. Paul Mifsud, the late chief of staff for former Gov. George V. Voinovich, even said in 1995 that the Cleveland Republican "is a guy that lives and breathes equity" and is committed to affirmative action "every day of the year."