Sycamore family serving as March for Babies am bas sadors. Annika Jones quickly drifts off to sleep Saturday. Nestled in her mother’s arms, content from having just finished a bottle, she sighs softly as she naps. Kristina and Tim Jones, both 27, refer to 9-month-old Annika as their “little miracle.” The couple lost their first child, Hailey, in May 2006 just 15 minutes after she was born during Kristina’s 26th week of pregnancy. Two miscarriages followed before Annika was born June 13. “I don’t think, up until the day I went to the hospital, that I would go in and have a C-section and come home with a baby,” Kristina said. The Jones family is this year’s am bas sador family for the March for Babies in DeKalb County. A fundraiser for the March of Dimes, it will be held April 25 in Hopkins Park in DeKalb. The county’s walk raised more than $54,000 last year, and Lisa Kijowski, chairwoman of the March for Babies of DeKalb County, would like to exceed that this year. The March of Dimes is a nonprofit that works to improve the health of babies through research and education. Its goals are to prevent birth defects, premature birth and infant mortality, according to the organization’s Web site. An estimated half-million babies are born premature annually in the country, according to March of Dimes. The Jones family said the organization has provided support and information to them, and they lauded the group for the funding it provides for research and educational efforts. This is the third year they have taken part in the local walk. Team Hailey, which consists of about 30 friends and family members, has raised a combined $13,000 during those three years for the March of Dimes. They accepted the role of 2009 ambassador family for the local walk so they should share their story, Tim said. “More often, you hear the good stories, where the baby survived,” he said. “We weren’t as fortunate. But it’s a story that people need to hear because it does happen.” Kijowski said the ambassador family usually is “someone who has been truly touched” and has a direct connection with the March of Dimes. “I think people have a tendency to forget when there is not the sight of a physical family or babies there to share their story,” Kijowski said. “Usually, when the ambassador family has shared their story, there’s not a dry eye in the house.” The Joneses’ story starts with Hailey, who was born with Ebstein’s anomaly, a heart defect in which the tricuspid valve is abnormally formed. The tricuspid valve normally has three “flaps,” or leaflets, according to the American Heart Association. With Ebstein’s anomaly, one or two flaps are stuck to the wall of the heart. Kristina had gone to the doctor because she hadn’t felt Hailey move much; after an ultrasound, the doctor told the Joneses that the baby was in distress and needed to be born immediately through a Caesarean section. At 26 weeks, Hailey had a 40 percent chance of survival. Tim and Kristina said they were in shock at the news. When a pediatrician told them there would be some decisions to make after the birth, “we both knew what that meant,” Kristina said. “I don’t even think we had time to think. It went really fast,” Kristina recalled. “She lived 15 minutes. That’s it.” Tim and family members were told first; Tim told Kristina when she awoke after surgery. “I don’t know how we went through it,” Kristina said. “I don’t know how we’re here smiling. It’s unnatural. Parents aren’t supposed to see their child die.” Doctors advised Kristina and Tim to wait a year before trying to have another child, which they said was hard but gave them time to grieve. Frequent visits with doctors and specialists led to Annika’s birth last year. Hailey is never far from their minds, Kristina said, and being able to help other babies in her name is an honor. “We can raise this money for other babies, so when other babies are born at 26 weeks with a heart condition, one day, none of them dies,” she said. “That’s our passion. We don’t want to see families go through what we went through.” March for Babies For information about the March for Babies in DeKalb County, call Lisa Kijowski at 815-899-5743. Visit www.marchforbabies.org for more information. This year’s walk starts at 10 a.m. April 25 at Hopkins Park in DeKalb. The March for Babies of DeKalb County is sponsored by Kishwaukee Community Hospital and Valley West Community Hospital, as well as The National Bank & Trust Co., Castle Bank and Soft Water City. A fundraiser will be held April 1 at Culver’s, 1200 DeKalb Ave. in Sycamore. A portion of proceeds from that day will be donated to the March of Dimes.