Kishwaukee College hosts annual book sale. MALTA – About 5,000 books are stacked on, under and around tables near the entrance to the Kishwaukee College library, separated into subjects as diverse as those on the library shelves – job search, self-help, textbooks, encyclopedias and a small mountain of paperback fiction. "We've been getting donations throughout the year and discarding throughout the year, and we had a book drive about a month ago," library staffer Mary Middleton said. "A lot are related to the degrees and programs we have here at the college, and we got a lot of fiction donations." And those thousands of books are available for purchase this week during the library's annual book sale. Paperbacks in the sale are priced at 50 cents and hardcover books at $1. The proceeds from the sale will help the library to purchase new books and materials, Middleton said. When deciding which books to discard, the library staff consider the condition of the book and the number of titles on the shelf with the same subject, she said. They also consider the age of the information. While the information contained in art books never expires, she said, computer or political science texts can become obsolete. "We try to keep the library updated with relevant information," Middleton said. Some of the most desirable books were snapped up early by used book dealers waiting outside the door when the library opened Monday, Middleton said. The books that don't sell by the time the event ends Saturday will either be set out on tables for students to take for free or will be sent to an online used book distributor for sale, she said. Though the annual book sale has been going on since 2004, it's not the only opportunity to get a deal on the library's used books, Middleton added. A section of shelves on the library's second floor is filled with books that are always on sale, she said. "That sale goes on year round, so if someone misses the book sale, they might want to come check that out," she said. If You Go The Kishwaukee College library's annual book sale is being held through Saturday in the library on the college's campus at Route 38 and Malta Road in Malta. The library is open from 7:30 a.m.-9:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 7:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Friday and 8:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Saturday.