Two vying for Kirkland president post. The two candidates running for Kirkland president have one thing in common: Both have held the office before. Incumbent Mike Becker is facing village trustee Les Bellah in the April 7 election for village president. Bellah was village president from 1996-2004. “I’ve really missed sitting at that part of the table and interfacing with people, with business owners, on the one-on-one basis,” Bellah said Monday when asked why he wanted to run for village president again. “Those people look for some guidance and leadership and I feel like I provide both.” Becker has been president for the past four years and said he wants to continue doing a job he enjoys. He described himself as “a little more cautious or conservative,” traits he said are beneficial for an elected official to have. “Sometimes decisions are made in a quick manner or are looking for cheapest solution and that may or may not be the best solution,” he said. “I like to look into and understand each issue totally before developing a solution for it.” If elected, Becker said he would focus on the city’s economic survival. He would ensure the village “maintains community services within our limits during tough economic times.” It will be tough, he said, because he doesn’t expect the village’s revenue to increase much in the near future. “I’m not not sure how we do that. We have to keep a very careful eye on what we spend and how we spend it, and make the most that we can with our money,” he said. Bellah said he would focus on spending as well, but said he would provide “little or no compromise” on keeping the police and public works departments well staffed because both are needed to ensure public safety. He advocated for expanding neighborhood watch programs to “let the people be the eyes and the ears of the police department.” And he said he would ask residents to support local businesses, noting many leave the village to shop elsewhere. Bellah said he would go door-to-door to talk to residents about that, or hold town meetings were shopkeepers could talk to residents about their struggles to stay afloat. A priority for Becker would be to examine options for the village’s wastewater treatment plant. The existing plant is “getting near the end of its life term,” he said, and the village needs to consider methods of replacing it. “Given these times, I’m not sure we can do it,” Becker said, adding he would recommend the village seek federal funding for assistance. At the very least, he said, they need to start planning for a new one. Another priority for Bellah is enforcement of traffic laws in the village. Many motorists traveling on Route 72 through the village exceed the speed limit, which is 35 miles per hour coming into and leaving town, and 30 in the village, he said. “The trucks speed through extremely fast, and people are running stop signs,” he said. “I don’t know what they think the word ‘Stop’ means.” Both men said they would be a good fit for the job. “Kirkland is my home. I really care deeply about what goes on in the community,” Becker said. “In the years I’ve been on the village board, residents know they can come to me with a problem and I will try to get to the bottom of it,” Bellah said.