Body found in Kish River identified. A body found this weekend in the Kishwaukee River was identified Monday as that of a Wisconsin man last seen Christmas Day in DeKalb. The body of 56-year-old James C. Verduin was found about 2:45 p.m. Sunday in the river near Hopkins Park in DeKalb. Verduin was identified Monday during an autopsy, DeKalb County Coroner Dennis Miller said. Preliminary autopsy results show Verduin, a father of two from West Allis, Wis., drowned, Miller said. “We don’t suspect any foul play,” Miller said, adding there were no wounds, bruises or other marks on the body. “There was no sign of a struggle.” Miller said Verduin probably died Christmas Day or Dec. 26, and has been in the river since then. A couple walking their dog Sunday afternoon in Hopkins Park noticed the body floating face up in the water behind the 200 block of Joanne Lane, according to police reports. Police do not know where Verduin entered the water. “When you’re dealing with rivers, currents can certainly have a huge effect on where you’re going to find an object,” DeKalb Police Lt. Gary Spangler said. “He could have went into the river 100 yards of where we found him, he could have gone in by the hotel. We just don’t know.” Verduin’s body might have been stuck on something in the river, Spangler and Miller said, which is why it hadn’t been found until now. If that was the case, recent heavy rainfalls caused the river to swell and could have dislodged him, Spangler said. Authorities believe Verduin wandered into the river, Spangler said. “We are aware of some emotional issues that could have contributed to the death,” he added. The body of Verduin, who was found wearing only boxer shorts, was discolored but intact, according to police reports. Verduin “more than likely discarded the clothing before or while in the water,” Spangler said, but added that the clothing has not been found. Verduin was expected to attend a family gathering Dec. 27, but left a message for his family that he needed some time away by himself, his brother, Bill Verduin, told the Daily Chronicle in January. The family is not sure why he was in the DeKalb area on Christmas Day, when he was involved in a one-car accident on Interstate 88. Verduin declined treatment at the scene of the accident, according to police reports, but appeared a bit disoriented by people he came in contact with after the accident. Miller said Verduin showed no signs of head trauma. His family has said Verduin had diabetes. After his car crashed into a tollway truss, it was towed from the scene, and the tow truck driver dropped Verduin off at the Best Western DeKalb Inn & Suites, police said. Two days later, a hotel employee called Verduin’s family and asked them to pick up his belongings, noting that he had never checked out. The family called police, who searched the area around the hotel that night, police said. Several additional air and ground searches were conducted in the days and weeks following his disappearance. Phone messages left Monday with Verduin’s family members were not immediately returned.