Committee plans May benefit along with dedication. It may have seemed, at times, like it might never get there, but the Dublin Veterans Project is moving closer to its fundraising and dedication goal. "We are 80 percent to our goal," project committee member Michael Kehoe said during Dublin City Council's regular session Monday, March 16. The committee has raised nearly $612,000 toward its goal of $790,000, he said, with eight of 25 trees designated in the sycamore grove section of the memorial. In 2006, Dublin City Council committed $250,000 to the project, with another $250,000 in funds to be raised by the Veterans Project fundraising committee. At the time, plans proposed to have the completed project's dedication on Veterans Day in 2007. But the project ran into obstacles when city staff learned in July 2007 that the total construction cost for the Grounds of Remembrance memorial was approaching, if not exceeding, $800,000. The cost overrun resulted in the Veterans Project committee unanimously approving a motion to allow project design firm Plant Architect Inc. of Toronto, Ontario, Canada a second chance to come back to the committee with a design for the Grounds of Remembrance project that would meet the original $500,000 budget. The project was designed to include an entry sign, a copper clad loggia, a memory wall, a dedication wall, walking path and associated site work, according to information from the city. City Council unanimously approved a resolution accepting a base bid of $478,840 from the McDaniel Construction Corp. as the lowest and best bid for the project in August 2008 and construction began shortly after. The project committee has a fundraiser, the Red, White and Blue Bash, scheduled for 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. May 1 at the Villas at Coffman Park, Kehoe said. Tickets are $300 each and include a dedication stone, he said. "If they have already purchased a stone, we will offer another option," he said. The dedication of Grounds of Remembrance in Dublin Veterans Park is on track to take place Memorial Day, Monday, May 25, "following the parade led by the VFW and American Legion," Kehoe said. "You have all done an incredible job raising the funds and increasing awareness of this very important memorial," Dublin Mayor Marilee Chinnici-Zuercher said. In other council business, legislation was approved authorizing the city to enter into a pre-annexation agreement for 5,600 acres on the east side of Hyland-Croy Road at 8600 Hyland-Croy Road in Jerome Township, in order to obtain city water and sewer services. Legislation amending the annual appropriations ordinance for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2009, also was approved. In addition, council approved a resolution allowing the city to enter into an agreement allowing the operation of a Subway restaurant in the Dublin Community Recreation Center. The city previously had a lease agreement with TehKu Tea Co. TehKu ceased operations at the center in August 2008 due to its inability to prosper, according to information from the city. "We learned a lot from that experience," Dublin Recreation Services Director Matt Earman said. Following a patron survey conducted by city staff, Subway was found to meet the primary criteria of providing prompt service for all menu options, a variety of healthy food options, and a business strategy with proven success inside a recreation center similar to the DCRC -- the Natatorium in Cuyahoga Falls, he said. The estimated timeframe for full operation at the DCRC is eight to 12 weeks, according to information from the city. The center's restaurant will include breakfast sandwiches as well as the full Subway menu. Council adjourned to a closed session for discussion of legal, land acquisition and personnel matters, according to information from the city, at the request of Dublin City Manager Terry Foegler.