Name gameCouncil is considering street name changes. Wichita Street or Wichita Drive? Dublin City Council heard a first reading on legislation to change the name of the street during its regular meeting Monday, March 16. Dublin Director of Engineering Paul Hammersmith said a discrepancy in what residents believe is the street name after it was brought to the attention of city staff by the Franklin County Auditor's Office. The city issued addresses for Wichita Street Dec. 16, 1986. Records indicate the majority of residents are using Wichita Drive instead of Wichita Street, according to information from the city. "We think the developer installed street signs showing Wichita Drive, and that the posted sign is why the residents use 'Drive' instead of 'Street,' " Hammersmith said. "Folks moved in, started using Wichita Drive and that is where we are at today," he said. Hammersmith said letters were sent to the nine residents regarding the change, and that city staff has not heard back from them. "The post office and 9-1-1 said everybody is using Wichita Drive," he said. "It should be a simple change, which we will take care of at out next meeting," April 6, Mayor Marilee Chinnici-Zuercher said. Council also heard a first reading of legislation to change the name of a section of Darby Street in Historic Dublin to North Street. Darby Street currently originates on Bridge Street between the Dublin Veterinary Clinic, 32 W. Bridge St., and the BriHi site, and ends on High Street, south of the Dublin Branch of the Columbus Metropolitan Library, 75 N. High St.Proceeding north on Darby from Bridge Street, Darby Street makes a 90-degree turn to the east in front of the library, and causes confusion because the street intersects both Bridge and High Streets and runs both north-south and east-west, according to information from the city. "We know this is actually called Darby Street, and that is part of the problem," Hammersmith said. Changing the name of the section running east-west in front of the library from Darby to North Street will also help meet one of the goals of the Historic Dublin wayfaring project -- to make visitors comfortable and confident while visiting the district, according to information from the city. Both the city and engineering departments support the change, there are no addresses to be renamed, and the library and the Blarney Brothers Ltd., adjoining property owners, have not expressed concerns regarding the proposed change. "Some things do work in our favor," Hammersmith said. A second reading and vote on the legislation is expected during Council's regular meeting April 6.