Dublin Arts Council awards community arts grants. Nina Webb-Lawton, Dublin Arts Council board member and member of the DAC Community Arts Grants Committee, announced Monday, March 23 that the DAC is awarding 2009 community arts grants totaling $13,440 to three local groups, DAC Marketing and Public Relations Manager Janet Cooper said. A $1,100 grant is being given to Dublin Area Art League for assistance with Best of Show prizes for the organization's spring and fall art shows, as well as funding for operational support of the Dublin Art Stroll and Paint Out and the annual Distinctly Dublin calendar contest. The league is a group of artists, from beginner to professional, who gather to meet with other artists and to develop their talents. For more information about DAAL, visit The Dublin Singers received a community arts grant of $2,340 for support with advertising expenses relating to the group's annual spring and winter performances and a late summer membership drive. The Dublin Singers is Dublin's community chorus, providing an opportunity for singers beyond high school age to come together to perform a wide variety of choral music for the benefit of their fellow singers and the community in which they live. The group's spring concert, "The Times of Our Lives" will take place at 8 p.m. May 1 and 2, and 3 p.m. May 3 in the Abbey Theater at the Dublin Community Recreation Center, 5600 Post Road, according to information from the group's Web site. More information about The Dublin Singers can be found at . Emerald City Players has received a grant of $10,000 for the purchase of new lighting equipment. Emerald City Players is a progressive community theater troupe, with the mission "To enrich Dublin by providing quality live theatrical and musical experiences that entertain, educate and offer artistic opportunities. "The troupe will perform Cliffhanger, written by James Yaffe and directed by Linda Sopp, at 8 p.m. April 24 and 25, May 1 and 2 and May 7, 8 and 9 at the theater in the Dublin Village Shopping Center at 6799 Dublin Center Drive. A 2 p.m. performance will take place May 3, according to information from the troupe. For more information about Emerald City Players, visit , Cooper said. In the last 10 years, the DAC has given nearly $220,000 to community arts grant recipients, Webb-Lawton said.Organizations must be exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and registered with the State of Ohio as a non-profit organization to apply for a DAC Community Arts Grant, Cooper said.Organizations must also be based in Dublin, and contribute to DAC's mission of engaging the community, cultivating creativity and fostering life-long learning through the arts. The deadline to apply for 2010 DAC Community Arts Grants is Sept. 15, 2009. For more information about any of Dublin Arts Council's classes, programs, exhibitions and events, call 614- 889-7444; or visit the Web site