Gulf-war vet to bike from Norman to D.C.. He’s a long way from home. His arms are aching and a warm shower would feel good. But Kevin George Baker can’t complain. His mission is at stake. Sipping a Sprite during a stop at Gainesville’s VFW Post No. 1922,, Baker, almost 40, talked about his plan to ride a bicycle from his hometown of Norman, Okla. to Washington D.C.Peddling a custom built hand crank bicycle, the disabled Gulf War veteran knew he would be among friends when he saw Gainesville VFW Post No. 1922 in the distance. “I saw the VFW and I thought, “Thank God,” Baker said. The purpose of his journey is simple. He’d like to deliver an Honor and Remember flag to President Barack Obama. Honor and Remember is a nationwide project to bring recognition to American veterans. The organization’s mission is, according to its Web site, “to establish and promote a nationally recognized flag that would fly continuously as a visible reminder to all Americans of the lives lost in defense of our national freedoms. All Military lives lost not only in action but also in service, from our nation's inception.” Baker doesn’t have an invitation to visit the White House, but hopes the president will allow him inside, just for a moment. “I’m hoping President Obama will open the gates for me,” Baker said, smiling. He’s a likable guy who looks younger than he is. He’s quick to talk about his progress and even quicker to listen to the words of others. He never gets tired of telling strangers why he’s riding a bike to D.C.And strangers like to talk to him. Most have one main concern — Baker’s safety. “They ask me if I’m all right,” he said. Baker is not easy to miss with his trio of flags -- an American flag, a Soldier’s Angels flag and an Honor and Remember flag and his belongings strapped neatly to his bicycle and small bike trailer. It isn’t easy to peddle the custom built bicycle, especially for a man with a disability. An enemy attack while serving in a naval firefighting unit in the first Gulf War left him with severe neurological damage. As a result, he can stand only with assistance. But using his shoulders, arms and hands he can peddle a bike like nobody’s business. “I may end up looking like the Incredible Hulk when I get back,” Baker said, “All that upper body strength.” He got the idea to start his journey during a tough time in his life. He was battling cancer -- a result, he said, of Gulf War syndrome, a set of troubling symptoms which include neurological disorders and several types of cancer. The U.S. Defense Department denies the existence of Gulf War syndrome but Baker is certain his time in Iraq, breathing the contaminated air from hundreds of Saddam Hussein‘s burning oil facilities, caused his cancer. The disease may even be the reason Baker chose to make the trip. “In December, I was going through chemo and I thought this might be the last time I can do something like this so I may as well try it,” he said. He left his Norman home Saturday, March 7 according to www.honorandremember.org.His plan on Monday was to stop for a while in Gainesville before heading on to Sherman where he had decided to spend the night in a camp ground. Baker brought along the things he figured he would require during the 15-week trip -- about 150 pounds of gear including camping supplies. He tries to plan his stops so that he ends up at public campgrounds. Other times, he stays at hotels or motels. On a good day with calm winds and fair weather, he said he can do 50 miles a day. Some days, like Monday, are more difficult with relentless winds that make peddling a challenge. “I was lucky to get 40 miles in today,” he said. He’s also met some kindred spirits on the trip. “My first day out, I peddled 48 miles and was through for the day. I stopped at a Shell gas station where I met a husband and wife. They were both veterans, and they ended up asking me to stay the night with them,” he said. He admits the ride to Washington is one of the greatest challenges of his life. Baker said he isn’t even sure he’ll make it the entire 1,500 miles. “I’m not thoroughly sure I can do this, but I tell myself every day that I can and so far, I’ve kept on going,” he said. He isn’t afraid he’ll become too ill to continue the ride, he said. “Riding this bicycle makes me feel stronger. I’ve been sick for 11 years, but I’m gonna be okay,” he said. Baker said he isn’t riding for his own recognition. He’s riding for all the men and women who have fought and are still fighting in wars that most people don’t spend too much time thinking about. And there’s another, more basic reason for his ride. “I love my country,” he said. To follow Kevin George Baker’s journey see www.honorandremember.org.