TxDOT puts FM 678 overpass on project list. It could take a few years, but residents of Cooke County are hopeful a new Texas Department of Transportation construction project will help make a dangerous Highway 82 intersection safer. TxDOT reportedly approved a request to fund an overpass running east and west over Farm to Market 678 on U.S. Highway 82, said Commissioner Gary Hollowell. Hollowell said the resolution is the combined efforts of a number of concerned citizens as well as members of the commissioners court. A group of commissioners wrote the resolution and presented it to TxDOT at least two years ago, Hollowell said. “We’ve attended meetings at (TxDOT’s district office) in Wichita Falls where we met with a nonbinding resolution committee. We provided TxDOT with a wish list of projects we would like to see completed. The list is prioritized, but TxDOT is not obligated to do it (the projects),” he said. He said county judges and representatives of municipalities often appeal for projects they believe are important. The overpass at 678 was apparently a priority for many, Hollowell said, citing efforts by county commissioners, Cooke County residents and others including Callisburg Independent School District Superintendent Dr. Charles Holloway to get the project started. “The justification for the project are the accidents and near-accidents at this intersection,” he said. The project is also the result of investigation and research by TxDOT officials. “TxDOT spent time doing traffic studies and installing warning indicators (at the intersection),” he said. “They also increased the number of turn lanes and added exceleration lanes and striping to try to highlight the area.” The project is not scheduled to begin immediately. “We think it will be let in 2010 or 2012,” Hollowell said. For many, the project cannot begin soon enough. “The sooner, the better,” he said. The FM 678 and Highway 82 project is one of at least construction projected slated to take place in Cooke County. The 678 project is expected to be paid for by surety bond funds. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (2009 Stimulus bill) is reportedly funding two addition projects. These projects include a resurfacing of portions of Interstate Highway 35 from Highway 82 to the Red River and widening FM 2071 between FM 372 and FM 922.