New Gainesville prison clashes with revitalization. A new detention facility planned for the heart of its Midtown district has some Gainesville officials wringing their hands. The city, in talks with Hall County and Corrections Corporation of America, wants to insure that the new prison, which will house up to 502 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainees, meets its idea of urban revitalization. The city began a project 10 years ago to clean up the rundown area and invested $250,000 in a study to map out a revitalization strategy, said City Councilman Danny Dunagan. Nashville-based CCA signed a five-year agreement to lease the old county jail from Hall County to operate the center on Main Street. The 20-year lease, with two 5-year renewals, will pay Hall County $2 million annually. “The last thing we want in downtown for 20 years is a prison,” Dunagan said. The city has invested a lot in its Midtown revitalization, including a new police/fire station. Plans also call for a 13-story hotel and two nine-story office buildings. The city had even worked out a verbal agreement with the county to buy the old jail, Dunagan said. The plan called for the city to then lease the facility back to the county so it could sub-lease it to CCA, he said. But that deal would have run for eight years, Dunagan said, then the city would have the option of shutting it down. Councilman George Wangemann said the city is behind the economic boost the prison could bring to the city, but he wants it to fit in with the aesthetics. Louise Grant, CCA marketing and communications director, said that while the company is in the business of operating prisons, it is working to resolve the aesthetics issue with the city. “Safety and security is our first and foremost priority,” she said. “We’re making a $4 million investment to upgrade the facility.” Grant said razor wire is common at all its 60 facilities, but alternative fencing is being discussed. Since last week’s announcement of the prison opening, CCA has received some 500 applications for the approximately 120 jobs available, Grant said. Since last week’s announcement of the prison opening, CCA has received some 500 applications for the approximately 120 jobs available, Grant said.