Past year has been ‘best’ for Dyer. The 2008 Walker County Fair Queen made one of her last official appearances Tuesday during the annual Committeeman’s Barbecue at the Walker County Fairgrounds. Jordan Dyer, a 17-year-old Huntsville High School student, has spent the last year making more than 30 public appearances in Huntsville and in counties around the state as the current fair queen. Now, just days before the 2009 Walker County Fair Queen is to be crowned, Dyer is all smiles as she fulfills her final duties. “This was probably the best year I’ve ever had,” Dyer said. “I probably went to about 30 or 40 events throughout the year, including all kinds of fair functions, shows and meetings. “It was a really busy year, but I knew going into it that I was going to have that much to do, and I had a great time.” Dyer’s favorite part of being the fair queen was working with younger participants on events like the Prince and Princess Contest. “I learned a lot both while traveling around the state and while working with different groups in Walker County,” Dyer said. “Not only did I make friendships that will last a lifetime, but I gained leadership and communication skills as well. “I didn’t realize how many kids would be looking up to me in this position, and I definitely had to stay on my best behavior for the entire year.” With a new fair queen to be crowned Saturday, Dyer has very few remaining duties to fulfill as the current queen. “In addition to participating in the Committeeman’s Barbecue, I’m also going to be involved in the annual Walker County Fair Association Parade, and I’ll also be part of the rehearsals for the opening ceremonies,” she said. “Of course, I’ll be available to help the girls in this year’s queen contest get ready for their events, as well. “I know the girls who are competing — especially those who end up in the queen’s court and the new queen herself — are going to have a great time. The whole experience was a lot of fun, and I would definitely do it again if I could.” While Dyer was showing her contest heifer in Houston on the day of the 2009 queen participants’ contest presentations, she said she was very impressed with the video recording of the contest. “I think everybody did a really great job with their projects, and I think every one of the contestants has a really good shot at earning the crown,” she said. “Whoever doesn’t win, I hope they continue on and participate in the contest next year. “Regardless of who wins the contest, I would just want to tell that person not to take the experience for granted. I think they should just have fun with it, be really respectful to the other contestants and not be stressed out.” On July 30, Dyer will turn 18, and while she previously planned to attend Stephen F. Austin University, she has considered changing her plans and applying to Sam Houston State University. Wherever she attends college, Dyer says she wants to major in nursing and participate in National Intercollegiate Rodeo Association events.