Deadline set to register for AP testing. Huntsville High School students have until Tuesday to register for 2009 advanced placement testing, and the student body is encouraged to take advantage of the testing opportunity. The advanced placement exams will allow students to earn potential college credits, whether they are enrolled in advanced placement courses or not. According to Nikki Surley, HHS counselor, students will be expected to pay $56 per test, and the full payment amount must be submitted by Tuesday to avoid incurring late registration costs. “The annual CollegeBoard AP tests will be administered from May 4-8 and May 11-15, and the deadline for students to register for these exams is this Tuesday,” Surley said. “Tests will cost students $56 each, and the only students who will pay less for those tests are those who are on free and reduced lunch. “If they do not register for the tests and pay the full $56 registration fee, they may register late until April 15. However, the students will have to pay an additional $40 per test if they register after Tuesday.” Surley said the exam schedule is the same for every high school in the country, and the days students take their specific tests depend on that schedule. “Students cannot change the days they take tests on, but most of the time, they don’t overlap on tests,” she said. “We just really want to encourage students to take these tests, because they’re basically earning college credit at a largely reduced rate. “Students should also know they are eligible to take any AP exam they choose, even if they are not enrolled in the subject of the exam this semester.” AP exams are scored on a five-point scale with a score of five being the highest. Surley said different universities require different scores on the exams for students to earn credit equivalents with the exams. “Kids who want to use these tests for college credits need to check with their universities to verify their score requirements,” she said. “Some universities don’t even accept AP credits, and it’s very important to know that ahead of time. “Even if students cannot use the tests or do not perform well enough on them to earn college credits, the experience of taking the exams is still valuable.” Students who wish to register for AP exams must speak with Shelly Christie in the HHS main office. Payment may be made with cash or a check, and all checks must include the student’s driver’s license number. For a complete schedule of the AP exams to be offered, visit http://www.collegeboard.com.