City manager seeks support for road work. Huntsville City Manager Bill Baine is currently working to gather support — both at the city level and at the county level — for an improvement project on state Highway 19. At a recent Walker County Commissioners Court meeting, the five-member court agreed to assist Baine in receiving a $2 million engineering grant with a $400,000 matching requirement. Now, Baine must take the grant before City Council, and he said he is very hopeful that the council will also be supportive of the project. “The grant we’re looking at is a $2 million federal grant for economic development and hurricane mitigation,” Baine said. “Our justification for applying for the grant is that we want to improve Highway 19 so it can take some traffic off of Interstate 45 and around the city, especially during hurricane evacuations. “Receiving this $2 million, which would be used to design of an improved 6.2-mile portion of Highway 19, would get us in line for future funding for the construction costs.” According to Glenn Isbell, city engineer for the City of Huntsville, the portion of Highway 19 that would be addressed in the plan rests with Huntsville city limits and includes several major intersections. “Basically, we’re looking at creating an urban arterial on a portion of Highway 19 between Interstate 45 and Highway 30 that is largely undeveloped,” he said. “That would involve creating a five-lane, curb and gutter section with a raised center median which would allow for left-turn movements. “We would also want to construct on- and off-ramps at the intersections of Highway 19 and state Highway 75, Bearkat Boulevard and Highway 190. With the right ramp configuration, the ramp at Bearkat Boulevard would become a major entrance into Sam Houston State University. “As well, we would also look at some possible traffic signals to control cross-over traffic, and we would also consider reducing the speed limit from 60 miles per hour to 50 in that portion of Highway 19.” Including the $2 million engineering grant, Isbell said the total cost of the improvement project would be approximately $21 million. “In effect, this $2 million grant would be a down payment on the rest of the project,” Baine said. “The construction project would be about $19 million total, and what we’re trying to do is keep the taxpayers from paying too much, both now or during the possible construction phase. “The Commissioners Court has already agreed to pay one-third of our $400,000 matching requirement for the $2 million grant, and I anticipate that the City Council will respond favorably to assisting with that matching requirement, as well.” Local considerationsThe lack of safety for current Highway 19 users is another large factor contributing to the project, Baine said. “One person a year is killed, each and ever year, on that highway,” Baine said. “Plus, we have about 54 crashes on that road each year which result in about 47 injuries involving some level of hospitalization. “The people getting hurt are not the old or the very young, but the middle-young, and the accidents are taking place at the times of the day when people go to school.” While environmental studies, cost studies and even land acquisitions have taken place since 1968, no strong action has taken place with regard to Highway 19 until the recent county decision to provide support. “We’re trying to make this issue something the citizens can unite over so pressure an be put on political leaders above the city,” Baine said. “The decision by the Commissioners Court to provide financial support was in many ways unprecedented, but now we have to think about working with Rep. Kevin Brady, state Rep. Lois Kolkhorst and other officials to move forward.” While Baine said nothing is certain with respect to earning the grant, he said he feels earning the grant and getting a set improvement plan in place are good first steps toward eventual construction. “We can’t get in line for construction funding without a design ready, and that’s what this money would get us,” he said. “With a design ready, and with persistence in applying for funds through a variety of different avenues, I’m confident that we’ll be able to go farther with this than we have in the past.”