Public safety Mother in Cass County incest case pleads not guilty . The mother in the Rinehart incest case on Monday entered a plea of not guilty to two counts of child endangerment. Attorneys for Linda Rinehart, who appeared in Cass County Circuit Court, also filed a motion to prohibit cameras in the courtroom during pretrial proceedings. Her husband, Danial Rinehart, is accused of having an incestuous relationship with one of the couple’s teenage daughters that lasted five years and produced four babies. He has been charged with second-degree murder, incest, statutory rape, child endangerment and abandonment of a corpse. Authorities say Linda Rinehart knew of the abuse but did nothing to stop it. She is next due in court May 11. One of the babies survived. The boy is in state custody. A firefighter stopped a woman from stealing a battalion chief’s marked vehicle from a fire station about 7:30 p.m. Sunday. After the woman entered the station’s open doors at 1517 Locust Street, a firefighter in the back of the garage told her she was not supposed to be there. The woman jumped into a Fire Department sport utility vehicle and turned the keys in the ignition. The firefighter hopped in the passenger side, turned off the ignition and detained the 24-year-old woman. Police later arrested her. A man has been charged for the role he allegedly played in a car chase in which a Kansas City, Kan., police officer was dragged about 50 feet. Issac Fisher, 26, of Kansas City, Kan., was charged Monday in Wyandotte County District Court with aggravated battery, felony eluding a police officer, disorderly conduct and obstructing the legal process. Fisher was one of three people police arrested Thursday night after a 10-minute car chase that began in Kansas City, Kan., when a police officer was dragged by Fisher’s vehicle, a news release from District Attorney Jerome A. Gorman said. The officer shot the driver of the car, who was caught in the area of Roanoke Park in Kansas City. Police have identified a man who was killed in a shooting early Saturday. Johnny L. Baer, 24, of Kansas City, Kan., was one of three people found shot in the 2400 block of South 13th Terrace. Baer died at the scene. The other victims had injuries that were not considered life-threatening. Anyone with information should call the Kansas City, Kan., police at 913-573-6020 or the TIPS Hotline, 816-474-TIPS (816-474-8477). A 21-year-old Blue Springs man pleaded guilty Monday in the traffic death of a motorcyclist who was escorting a funeral procession. Jon E. Mihm pleaded guilty in Jackson County Circuit Court to a charge of involuntary manslaughter in the death of Steven W. Keith. As part of the plea agreement, a separate case involving a charge of leaving the scene of an accident was dismissed, according to a court spokesman. Sentencing is scheduled May 7. Keith, 51, of Blue Springs, worked for a private company and was escorting a procession April 2 on Woods Chapel Road near Castle Drive when his motorcycle and the sport utility vehicle driven by Mihm collided, according to police reports and court documents. Witnesses said Mihm had been weaving in and out of the procession in an attempt to get ahead of it when the collision occurred.