New twist develops in Fairfield hearing. A new plea agreement is “at least being discussed” for Elizabeth Fairfield, a Lebanon woman accused of murdering her daughter, Brittany, in June 2007. Robert Schembs, one of four lawyers on Fairfield’s defense team, told Superior Court II Judge Rebecca McClure a deal was possible during an initial hearing Thursday. “I think if we resolve it, it will be sooner rather than later,” Schembs said. Specifics will follow Thursday’s hearing, he told McClure. Initial hearings are when defendants formally learn what crimes they are accused of committing. Fairfield was already in jail after being indicted by a Circuit Court grand jury in November 2008 for allegedly giving Brittany a lethal dose of tramadol, a prescription pain killer. Additional charges of reckless homicide, neglect of a dependent and lying to police were filed against Fairfield on March 16. McClure gave attorneys until 11 a.m. April 24, when an hearing to review evidence is scheduled, to approve a plea agreement. Fairfield’s trial is to start at 8:30 a.m. May 4 and last five days. McClure said she anticipates the trial “would require substantially more jurors” than usually called for in a Superior II trial. “It costs us more than $1,000 just to get a jury here,” she said. Fairfield’s lawyers have already tried to keep the new charges from being field and still question whether the new charges are “technically legal,” Schembs said. There are “propriety issues” over the grand jury’s indictment, he said. “We’re not sure at this point what they were presented with and what they weren’t; what they did and what they didn’t,” Schembs said. McClure had rejected a motion to strike the new charges, saying the defense had based the request on an out-dated state law. “A new motion to strike is pending,” Schembs said. If the new charges stand, and if she is convicted on all four counts, Fairfield could spend up to 98 years in prison and be fined $35,000. Fairfield has rejected one plea agreement. On Jan. 20, Prosecutor Todd Meyer offered to have her confess to reckless homicide. If she had accepted, and agreed to attend parenting and prescription drug treatment classes, Fairfield would have been released that day. Fairfield declined to plead, maintaining her innocence.