AMEL center offers breathing space to Iraqi refugees . One of the first projects the committee hopes to start is the production of an information pack that contains advice and information useful to the refugee community. Once compiled, they hope to distribute this leaflet to some of the estimated 40,000 Iraqi refugees and many other refugees from Ethiopia, the Philippines, Sudan and Syria, who are not currently registered with the UNHCR. BEIRUT: "You know, the life of a refugee in Lebanon is such a difficult one," explains Haidar. "We are treated as undesirables, as trouble-makers, even as terrorists. Society is hostile toward us and the authorities don't recognize us as equals; we suffer from abuse, exploitation and the constant fear of arrest." The association believes that one of the primary benefits of the center is that it provides refugees with an opportunity to participate directly in the running of the services provided by the NGO. This participatory approach relies on a commitment to allowing refugees to take direct responsibility for the provision and maintenance of services. This week, AMEL took steps in realizing this vision, by organizing a democratic vote to elect a Youth Committee to represent the interests of the NGO's six hundred plus beneficiaries, the first of its kind in Lebanon. He goes on to say that even those refugees who are registered with the UNHCR and possesses UN papers are not safe, seeing as the Lebanese authorities do not recognize the status of refugees and will arrest and detain anyone who is caught. As a result, Sajed concludes, "many refugees cannot travel, but must remain in or close to their homes in [Beirut's southern suburbs], where the local security forces are sympathetic to their situation." The committee hopes that by becoming elected representatives, they can help to break the sense of isolation felt by refugees. Sajed explains the importance of the AMEL center as a safe space where people can meet and relax. "It is a place where we are able to do the sorts of everyday things that, as refugees, we are normally deprived of." Committee members all agree that it is through being at the center, making friends, sharing experiences, offering and asking for advice and engaging in dynamic activities that people are able to stop thinking about themselves as refugees and start to live more normal lives. A combination of this community-based mentality and a participatory approach can be seen in action through the educational and vocational training programs provided by the AMEL center. Instead of recruiting staff from outside, the center aims to recruit trainers and teachers directly from the Iraqi refugee community. For example, one of the committee members, Sajed, a long-term refugee in Lebanon, works at the center as an Arabic literacy and history teacher. Sajed hopes that by reaching out to the community, they will find other people with skills who are willing to share them. This way, Sajed hopes, the community will be able to provide for its own needs rather than being reliant on external help.