Tewksbury Twp. introduces special events ordinance. Township Attorney Michael Selvaggi said that a special event permit is meant for “informational purposes” to give township police or the local fire department notice that a larger event will be taking place in the township. He added that the township has no discretion to grant denial outside of health and safety issues related to the event. However, the ordinance does state that any applicant must show all taxes, fees, fines, and all other outstanding financial obligations to the township have been paid. Furthermore, no permit will be issued to a landlord if there are outstanding governmental, zoning, construction, or fire code violations against the person or the property in question. An application for the permit must be received by the township clerk at least 45 days prior to the event and is subject to review by the township police chief, fire official, health officer, zoning officer, construction officer, and township engineer for compliance with ordinances, laws, requirements, and regulations. The applicant would require additional approvals or permits from regulatory and government agencies where jurisdiction applies, such as the N.J. Division of Alcoholic Beverage Control or the state Department of Environmental Protection. According to the ordinance, the township, the Board of Education, and township volunteer emergency services may request a waiver from the township administrator from the requirements of the permit if they are sponsoring an event. . - The Township Committee introduced an ordinance on special events permits last Tuesday, March 10, that states a non-fee permit must be obtained for any event with 50 or more people on public or private property. However, private parties, celebrations, and gatherings that take place on private property and are invitation-only will be exempt from the permit requirement. The designated number of people includes participants, spectators, employees, caterers, and anyone else present at the event. The hours of operation for all special events will be from 9 a.m. until 11 p.m.The public hearing on the ordinance is scheduled for Tuesday, April 14.