DuPage County in 60 Seconds. Twin sisters Lindsay and Charlotte Graham, students at St. John's Lutheran School in Lombard, won first- and second-place awards respectively in the annual Sheldon Peck letter-writing contest. Each year Lombard fifth-graders pretend to be Sheldon Peck, an early Lombard settler and portrait artist, writing to Abraham Lincoln in 1848. This year more than 40 handwritten letters were judged on historical accuracy, letter-writing skills and student research on pioneer life in Babcock Grove (now Lombard). The awards were given Sunday at Sheldon Peck Homestead in Lombard. Lindsay received $40 with her first-place certificate and Charlotte received $25. The third-place certificate and $10 was given to Amanda Chlebek, a fifth-grader at Pleasant Lane School. The winning letters will be featured in a Lombard Historical Society newsletter and Lombard's TV Cable 6. Roselle police ticketed hundreds of motorists last month as part of a traffic crackdown partially funded with state grant money. Police said they issued 584 citations for speeding in February. They also made 13 DUI arrests and wrote 63 tickets for failure to wear a seat belt. Another 115 citations were issued for other violations. The grant money Roselle police received from Illinois Department of Transportation covered the cost of overtime for speed enforcement. Roselle officers this month are continuing the speed enforcement efforts. DuPage Sheriff John Zaruba is warning residents about two recent scams that his deputies are investigating. In one case, a resident who lives near Bensenville lost an undisclosed amount of money when they followed a caller's instructions to wire money to Canada for a family member's bond. The resident assumed the caller was truthful since the family member was named but, later, the resident learned that relative had never been arrested and was not even in Canada. In the second scam, a resident who lives near Glen Ellyn reported a telephone scam in which a caller requested the victim send money to cover processing fees for his Canadian Lottery winnings. The victim became suspicious and, instead of sending the money, alerted authorities.