Audit alleges discrepancies with emergency director over $1.8 million grant. Audit alleges discrepancies with emergency director over $1.8 million grant After an audit revealed he misspent $1.87 million in federal funds — much of which went into the coffers of his wife’s company — Brian Reams has been fired from his position as director of the division of public safety and emergency management. The audit also blames the Laurel County Fiscal Court for lack of oversight. The audit has been referred to the Kentucky Attorney General’s Office, the FBI and the United States Department of Homeland Security. Reams did not respond to a request for comment. Laurel County Judge-Executive Lawrence Kuhl fired Reams at the Emergency Operations Center and asked him to leave the building Tuesday morning. “Naturally, I hate the whole situation,” Kuhl said. “I wasn’t aware of it. None of us were aware of it until their findings. It’s a tough decision that has to be made by us and by me.” Fourth-district magistrate Jeff Book expressed his disapproval. “I’m very disappointed in someone of Mr. Reams’ status, with the magnitude of his position as the EMS director, director of CSEPP, homeland security, just the magnitude of his office, spending federal tax dollars coming into the county for emergency operations and the protection of our citizens being spent for what appears to be other reasons,” he said.Second-district magistrate Tom Baker echoed Book’s sentiment. “I feel anger, disappointment that our county has been dragged into this,” he said. The audit, released by state auditor Crit Luallen’s office, reported the Laurel County Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program received the $1.8 million grant so Reams could buy specific equipment for 10 Kentucky counties. Reams reportedly received two bids for the project, which he opened alone, rather than going through the fiscal court. The contract was ultimately awarded to PREP, a business owned by Melody Vess Reams. Melody Vess and Brian Reams married in June 2008. The equipment purchased by PREP — Providing Response and Emergency Preparedness — was far inferior to what was supposed to be bought as per the grant’s specifications. For example, the project called for 40, 8,000-watt generators but PREP delivered 40, 3,000-watt generators. “Based on Internet research for comparable prices, it appears that the invoice also overcharged for these generators by as much as $900 each,” the audit reads. “It appears CSEPP overpaid at least $35,402 for these generators.” The grant also called for the purchase of 40, 7 foot-by-18 foot Homesteader trailers. Instead, PREP delivered 40 LA Cargo trailers. “Questions were raised by one county CSEPP coordinator as to whether these were even new trailers due to deteriorated conditions in some areas,” the report reads. Gary Epperson, CSEPP director for Clark County, was taken aback by the equipment he received. “I was one of the people who was a little surprised we weren’t getting what we thought we were getting,” he said. “We were under the impression that we couldn’t get what we wanted. That’s what we were told. It was indicated at some meetings that we were having a cost overrun.” Epperson said Clark County’s trailer looked new but “it wasn’t the brand we thought we were getting. ”“I think everybody was concerned it wasn’t exactly what we expected to get,” he said. “The generators were the thing that stood way out. They weren’t really strong enough to power the equipment.” Nevertheless, PREP submitted an invoice asking for $530,446 to pay for supplies. CSEPP Public Information Officer Monica French said questions arose about the grant in August 2008, shortly after CSEPP Program Coordinator Mark Klaas and Kentucky Department of Emergency Management Director Brig. Gen. John Heltzel took over. French said the issue was brought to their attention immediately. “We cooperated completely with the auditors,” French said. “We want to ensure to everyone we are trying to make this right. That’s why we go in and inventory everything now. They will go and look at the property and check it out. We are putting new policies and procedures in place.” The Luallen audit was based on one performed by London-based Christian, Sturgeon & Associates, whose report questioned the entire cost related to the $1.87 million grant. However, the Christian report also places blame on the Laurel County Fiscal Court, saying it “did not properly oversee the bid process, bid award and procurement process. ”“As a result, improprieties occurred,” it reads. The report states, “bids for materials, supplies or equipment must be obtained for expenditures that exceed $20,000.” In the case of the grant, the bids did not even go through the fiscal court. In its finding, the Christian report said the court “should not engage in related party transactions.” The audit shows in May 2008 a purchase request was forwarded from Reams to the fiscal court for the purchase of parts and maintenance in the amount of $9,996.15. “The purchase requisition was pending at the time the Director (Reams) became married to the owner of PREP,” it reads. Allison Martin, spokeswoman for the Kentucky Attorney General’s office, said they have not yet received a copy of the audit, but will review it once they do. If warranted, charges would be filed in the coming weeks. Kevin Pickering, external affairs officer in FEMA Region IV, said FEMA is taking a wait-and-see approach. “It’s primarily a state issue at this point,” he said. “FEMA has and will continue to support the commonwealth of Kentucky as it investigates alleged misuse of CSEPP funds in Laurel County. Based on the results of that investigation, when it’s finished, FEMA will assess further action.” Staff writer Tara Kaprowy can be reached by e-mail at tkaprowy@sentinel-echo.com.