Snow, ice blanket Kansas; two dead. KANSAS CITY, Mo. â ” Tens of thousands of Kansas utility customers were without power Saturday and two deaths were reported as an early spring blizzard buried parts of Kansas in snow and ice. A 72-year-old man Hutchinson man was shoveling snow and died of an apparent heart attack Saturday, according to the adjutant general's office. On Friday, a 58-year-old woman was killed in a car accident on icy roadways in Marion County. '' Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims of this storm,'' Gov. Kathleen Sebelius said in a news release. '' Many roads in our state are still treacherous, so please be careful as you travel and take extra precautions when walking or working in the current conditions.'' The storm, which dropped several inches of snow around Riley County Friday night and Saturday, did little damage locally, officials said. '' We haven't had any calls,'' said Emergency Management Director Pat Collins. '' There were no roads closed, we haven't been busy at all.'' Collins said crews were out early to prepare roads around the county. Police officials said there were several non-serious wrecks on Interstate 70, but that drivers stayed indoors for the most part. Westar Energy said about 12,700 customers were without power as of about 8:30 p.m. Saturday. The utility said it had restored power to more than 60,000 customers since the storm began, with some customers experiencing multiple outages. Kansas Electric Cooperatives Inc. said five rural electric cooperatives were reporting outages to a combined 5,000 meters, which can serve multiple homes and businesses. Kansas City Power & Light was reporting 2,300 consumers were in the dark, primarily in Anderson County. Most of the utility problems were in south-central Kansas, where up to an eighth of an inch of ice was causing tree branches to snap and knocking down power lines. Ice accumulations were from a quarter inch to an inch across the Flint Hills and parts of southeast Kansas. Much of the state was dealing with heavy snow and a mix of snow, sleet and freezing rain. The National Weather Service said the heaviest snow had fallen in parts of southwest Kansas, including 28 inches in the Pratt area with six-foot snow drifts. '' There's a good swath of our area that's covered with at least a foot of snow,'' said Matt Girard, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Dodge City. Heavy winds accompanying the snow diminished visibility in many communities to almost zero and forced authorities to close several local and state highways. Still, the storm was blamed for numerous accidents. Much of central, eastern and southeastern Kansas were reporting a foot and a half or less of snow but were more concerned about the freezing rain making driving even more challenging. The Kansas Department of Transportation said several highways were closed in southwest Kansas due to poor visibility and blowing snow, including long stretches of such major routes as U.S. 54, 56, 83, 160, 183, 283 and 400. Part of U.S. 83 south out of Garden City was reopened, as was U.S. 50 west of Dodge City. Maj. Gen. Tod Bunting, the adjutant general, said a guard search and rescue team in Pratt County reported rescuing two stranded motorists near Pratt. The adjutant general's office also reported that emergency crews in Hutchinson responded to three partially collapsed building. Partial building collapses also were reported in Harvey, Harper and Kingman counties, but no injuries were reported. The Highway Patrol also sent out a plane Saturday to fly over areas of southwest and south-central Kansas to look for stranded drivers. And National Guard helicopters were assisting with search and rescue efforts. The National Guard also opened armories in Dodge City, Great Bend, Hutchinson, Kingman, Larned, Pratt and West Wichita Saturday as warming stations. Earlier Saturday, Sebelius signed a declaration of disaster emergency for 62 counties, allowing state resources to help local officials.