Fire near Orlando might shut I-4. Mar. 21 -- The smoke is back -- and with it the need for drivers to check conditions before they hit the road. A rapidly growing brush fire made commuting an ordeal for drivers on Interstate 4 on Friday night and threatens to close the highway today between DeLand and Daytona Beach if winds flare up as expected. '' It's [the weather] so unpredictable, we never know when we're going to have to shut it down,'' said Sgt. Kim Miller, a Florida Highway Patrol spokeswoman. Fifteen brush fires were burning in Volusia County on Friday, and another was under control in Osceola. The largest, spanning 800 acres near State Road 44, was first reported March 6 and was caused by people, according to the U.S. Forestry Service Web site. It doubled in size from Thursday morning to Friday night, said Shelley Szafraniec, a Volusia County spokeswoman. It is in a wooded, swampy area near DeLand difficult for firefighters to reach, she said. The blaze was within an eighth of a mile of I-4, but officials said they didn't plan to close the road unless it burned closer. Motorists were advised to slow down and use their lights if visibility dims. '' People need to use caution in this area,'' Szafraniec said. The flames, fanned by high winds, jumped a line that firefighters plowed. They weren't visible from the road. But smoke could be seen -- and smelled -- as far away as north Seminole County. Eight Florida Highway Patrol troopers were monitoring conditions. If flames burn across the highway, the road would be closed between I-95 and S.R. 472, Miller said. Dry weather is expected to continue until the rainy season starts in mid-May, said Bob Wimmer, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Melbourne. Winds, which are expected to kick up to 20mph this afternoon, won't help. '' Conditions have been dry, and we're getting into the driest part of our year,'' he said. A La Nina weather pattern is partly to blame, said Tony Cristaldi, another weather-service meteorologist. The phenomenon, which shifts Pacific Ocean temperatures and North American wind patterns, usually turns the rain spigot off for Florida during the winter and spring. The system is weakening, but ''the atmosphere doesn't instantaneously react,'' Cristaldi said. ``We're expected to stay dry right through the spring.'' The Florida Division of Forestry is working to control the flames with help from Volusia County firefighters, said Timber Weller of the forestry division. '' Being this dry, and the humidity being low, makes it very difficult to stop a fire,'' he said. ``The conditions are really stacked against them [firefighters] right now.'' Meanwhile, a 300-acre-plus brush fire was contained by Friday night in east Osceola County. The fire is near Crabgrass, Owens and Harris roads east of rural Holopaw, county spokeswoman Niki Whisler said. One or two dozen homes are nearby but are not in immediate danger, she said. '' One problem we have is the wind keeps shifting,'' Whisler said. The fire started Thursday, died down and flared again Friday.