Pool operators look to prevent another crypto outbreak. Last summer, a crypto outbreak scared plenty of people away from public pools and water parks across North Texas. "No system will completely take crypto out of a pool," said Chris Swartz, NRH{-2}O manager. "But this is state-of-the-art in recreational water management." The ultraviolet disinfection system is among the approaches cities and private water park operators are taking to address what has become a serious problem. Last year, 476 cases of crypto were reported throughout Tarrant County. In July, crypto was discovered in the water of Burger’s Lake in west Fort Worth; a swimmer was identified as the source of the infection. Throughout the summer, cases of crypto were reported and linked to various public pools. Crypto cases are on the rise in Texas and nationwide and health officials aren’t sure why. Last year in Texas there were 1,981 confirmed cases, up from 233 in 2007, according to the Texas Department of State Health Services. The increase might be due to heightened awareness of the parasite and increased reporting, said Michele Hlavsa, an epidemiologist with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "Instead of thinking 'Where did I eat?’ people are thinking 'Where did I swim?’ " she said. What makes crypto so difficult to deal with is its resistance to normal levels of chlorine and ability to survive more than 10 days in water. Many area cities plan to hyperchlorinate, or shock, pool water using high amounts of chorine. While that is an effective way to treat crypto, it cannot prevent an outbreak. The best thing people can do is avoid swimming if they have been sick, said David Jefferson, environmental health manager for Tarrant County Public Health. "What people have to remember is when you are in a swimming pool, you are in other people’s bodily fluids," he said. Even an ultraviolet system has limitations. The devices work by interfering with the DNA of a parasite, making it unable to reproduce. But the parasite must pass through the ultraviolet system, which can take six hours, before it comes back into the pool clean. "Before all the water gets treated, crypto is still sitting in the water," Hlavsa said. Hyperchlorination does a great job of lowering the amount of crypto in a pool, but it doesn’t have a lasting effect, Hlavsa said. Six Flags Hurricane Harbor, which had no crypto cases last year, is among several facilities planning to hyperchlorinate its pools. "It’s the easiest and most effective thing to do," park spokeswoman Sharon Parker said. Keller has considered a UV system but for now will focus on educating the public about healthy swimming habits and following the public health department’s recommendations, said Dona Roth Kinney, director of parks and recreation. The bottom line is that it’s up to people to prevent an outbreak by avoiding public pools for 10 days if they have had gastrointestinal symptoms, Jefferson said. "Swimmers are bringing it into the pools, and they’re the ones who can keep it out," he said. Wash your hands after using the toilet or changing diapers. Change diapers in a bathroom or diaper-changing area and not at poolside. Wash children thoroughly with soap and water before they go swimming.