Georgia Arrests Opposition Members on Arms Charges. TBILISI, Georgia -- Georgian police in arrested several opposition members on arms charges on Monday, in what their party leader said was a "campaign of terror" ahead of anti-government rallies next month. The opposition has stepped up pressure on President Mikheil Saakashvili since Georgia's disastrous defeat by Russia in a five-day war last August and plans a series of protests beginning on April 9 to demand his resignation. The Interior Ministry said 10 people had been arrested on charges of purchasing automatic weapons, including some "not very high-ranking" members of the Democratic Movement-United Georgia party led by former Saakashvili ally Nino Burjanadze. Ministry spokesman Shota Utiashvili said police were not specifically linking the arrests to the planned protests. "We don't claim this to be a political conspiracy," he said. "The only thing we know is that there are people who have expressed interest in buying weapons and have bought weapons. "This [the police operation] is aimed at preventing any possible violence in the future and to make sure the political processes don't get interrupted by violence that might come from a thousand different sources. "Police showed journalists about 20 minutes of secretly filmed video of what it said were the suspects buying weapons, which included automatic rifles. Burjanadze said the detained included the party's regional head in the coastal region of Ajara and her husband's driver. "The authorities have begun a campaign of terror in the country," she said. "This government has little time to rule, so stay calm and don't be provoked." Electricity suppliers across the country are cracking down as the number of delinquent private and corporate customers surges, as the dilapidated industry is mired in debt linked to unpaid consumer bills and the multibillion-dollar investment programs that investors signed onto during the privatization of Unified Energy System, which wrapped up just weeks before the financial crisis struck.