Cipolli, New London on the record. Ever since New London Police Chief Tom Cipolli made a public appeal to keep his job, New Londoners have been asking why Mayor Mike McBeth has been seeking to remove him. The mayor had planned to lay out his case at a public hearing on Tuesday, more than three months after the issue became public; but a 3-2 vote by the city council delayed that hearing until April, visibly frustrating McBeth and many of the 60 residents who turned out in search of answers. Neither McBeth nor Cipolli has publicly addressed the specific complaints behind McBeth’s request to dismiss the chief. But the Mt. Pleasant News has reviewed legal documents filed as evidence in the matter, and Cipolli’s formal response, which provide the clearest and most comprehensive look so far at the dispute between the two men. The files that accompany McBeth’s request cite 21 different reasons that McBeth was to cite in support of the action – alleging improper conduct, poor management of the police force, insubordination, untruthful statements to police and city officials and general incompetence. Cipolli, who has called McBeth's accusations "false and misleading," offers a broad response, including a look back at his nearly two years leading the New London Police Department, while responding to several of the claims made in McBeth's case. "I strongly believe that I have changed the department for the better," Cipolli writes, asserting that crime in New London has fallen during his tenure, to which he credited better training and improved professionalism within the department and stronger relationships with the community. "These positive relationships continue today," he writes, "as do my efforts to insure New London is a safe community. "The 119-page request includes seven affidavits, two from New London police officers, four from area residents and one from Winfield police chief John Chaney. At the end is a seven-page response from Cipolli. The full text of Cipolli's reponse, as well as each of the affidavits, can be read by following the links in this article. In addition, the files include e-mails from Cipolli, a section of the New London Code of Ordinances, Police Bill of Rights and police department manual, police expense reports and newspaper articles written on the matter. These are not included, but may be viewed, along with all other public documents, at the New London City Office, 112 W. Main St.