Health is more than skin deep, says Dr. Greco. "Dermatology is a wide-ranging specialty," according to Dr. Anthony Greco. "It encompasses the spectrum of medical conditions. "That explains why his practice n The Medical and Surgical Dermatology Center of Northeast Texas n is so busy, and also why he finds it so interesting. "You learn something new every day. "Dr. Greco has become a fixture in the Mount Pleasant medical community since coming here to practice in 1997, but his roots extend all the way to Canada - Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, to be exact, where he grew up. His mother's family was from Michigan, but he had an uncle who lived in Houston, and when he was young, he would him. Like so many transplants, his move to Texas was later partially motivated by the weather. "I got tired of Canadian winters," he laughs. "I liked the good climate like we have in Texas." He said he knew he wanted to be a physician from an early age. "I was fascinated by medicine, I always knew I wanted to go into medicine. "After he received his degree in internal medicine from the University of Toronto in 1992, he spent three years at McGill University in Montreal doing his dermatological residencyHe said he was proud to be accepted to study dermatology at McGill, one of the most prestigious universities in Canada. "It's top notch and very competitive, it's very hard to get in there. "Of all the sub-specialties in medicine, dermatology is one of the broadest because there are so many medical conditions that can manifest symptoms on the surface. A dermatologist needs to be familiar with at least 2,000 different conditions that might show signs or symptoms on or through the skin. "You have to know a lot of internal medicine," he explains. He said he realized as soon as he started practicing in Mount Pleasant there was a great need to be served. People were traveling to Sulphur Springs, Greenville and as far as Dallas for their dermatological care. "I've been super busy," he said, but he gets a lot of satisfaction from his work. The nature of dermatology is that his work usually shows results immediately, and patients are appreciative of that. "You usually don't see chronic of end-stage illnesses," he said. "You usually see results right away. "Of course, skin cancer is one of the most common diseases he treats. It's not necessarily because of the blistering Texas sun, he notes. "It's because there's a lot of fair-skinned people in Texas. "He likes to keep up-to-date with the latest treatments, and he's proud to use the Mohs' surgery technique for skin cancer. Mohs surgery is microscopically controlled surgery that is highly effective for common types of skin cancer, with a cure rate cited by most studies between 97% and 99.8%. The Mohs procedure provides precise removal of the cancerous tissue, while healthy tissue is spared. It is essentially a pathology sectioning method that allows for the complete examination of the cancerous area. Dr. Greco says he is very satisfied with how well the Mohs' procedure cuts down on the skin cancer recurrence rate. Like all dermatologists, he says we should all protect ourselves from the sun. Every blistering sunburn causes permanent damage to skin cells, and constant exposure will make you age so much faster, he notes. Another problem he says is common, at least in this area, are tick bites. "You'd be amazed, I've seen three people already this week with tick bites," he said. Tick bites can be potentially serious because ticks transmit Lyme Disease. He said he usually automatically starts tick bit victims on antibiotics. He urges people to do self-examinations and regular checkups of areas of potential concern, such as moles.