Putting children on witness stand wrenching for all. BY RUSS ZIMMER Advocate Reporter March 15, 2009 NEWARK -- Unfortunately, it's not an unusual sight -- a child walking toward the witness stand, usually with something in his or her grip, like a stuffed animal or an adult's hand. The child climbs up into the chair, feet not even touching the floor, preparing to talk about something of a very adult nature. Six minors took the stand in their capacity as alleged victims in rape trials in 2007 and 2008, according to data gathered by The Advocate. Many more testified against defendants facing lesser offenses or were interviewed by medical professionals and law enforcement for those cases. Over the past month, juries acquitted two men accused of sexual conduct with a child younger than 13. Doubt was cast on the strength of the state's cases, including inconsistencies in the victims' testimony compared to previous statements and the investigators' methods. Children in each case were required to divulge the alleged conduct, answer legally necessary questions and be subject to cross-examination, all in front of strangers and in front of the defendant. Licking County Prosecutor Ken Oswalt said the convergence of all these elements make an adult victim nervous, let alone a child. These factors can make their testimony unpredictable and sometimes damaging to a case, he said. For those reasons, Oswalt said his office wants to avoid putting children who already have suffered a life-changing experience in that situation. "We're not in the business of trying to further traumatize kids. ... We're in the business of trying to get people held accountable for the things they do," he said. After a child initially discloses abuse and it is reported to authorities, the child usually is taken to Kids' Place, which is a division of Licking Memorial Hospital. There, he or she will receive a physical exam much like any other trip to the doctor's office, but the child will be engaged in a conversation about the allegations, according to testimony in both trials. Newark police Detective Robert Huffman, who has been handling sexual offense investigations for 17 years, said the age of the child greatly affects the wording of the questions. "The younger the child is, the more steps you have to take to guard against leading the child in any way," he said. "What I try to do is let the child tell me what they want to tell me, really nothing more than that." Oswalt said his office tries to limit the number of interviews conducted and officials involved to minimize the embarrassment a child might feel. From Day 1, victims are offered aid through Licking County Victims' Services, which includes trial preparation, Victims' Services Director Mark Weiner said. He said his office tries to educate children about what to expect so they don't feel overwhelmed when they are called to testify. Sometimes they wonder why they have to talk to a room full of people, Weiner said. "We tell them sometimes bad things happen and you got to go up there and tell the judge," he said. The relative tranquility of the witness waiting room alters the second the doors to the courtroom swing open and 14 jurors, attorneys, the judge, the court reporter and observers all are watching as the children make their way to the witness stand. Another set of eyes, the defendant's, also are fixed upon the accuser. Much of the possible inconsistencies in a child's statement might arise from this pressure, Oswalt said. Keep in mind the vast majority of these children are victimized by close relations, he added. "That puts a young child in a situation of having competing interests or feelings -- maybe one of those is guilt," Oswalt said. "It's a huge dynamic." Most of the discrepancies in a child's story heard in court are inconsequential to the question of guilt or innocence, he said. Children might not even consider details of the event important to an adult to be memorable, Oswalt added. "Daddy touched me and it was yucky," he said referring to a typical reaction by an abused child. Huffman said he looks for authenticity in a child's statement in a number of ways, including having knowledge beyond their age. What authorities are listening for are "things from the child that they should have no knowledge of because of their age. Those are red flags," Oswalt said. Consistency also can be checked by reviewing the story with the child and inserting something they didn't say to see if the child corrects them, Huffman said. Defense attorney Kristin Burkett, who represented the exonerated defendants in both unsuccessful prosecutions, grilled police on the lack of an accompanying video or audio tape with their interview notes. Time and again, she asked detectives and jurors how anyone could critique whether the interviews were conducted properly or if stark differences existed in the victim's account if there was no digital or analog record. One juror, who spoke to The Advocate after finding a defendant not guilty, said the lack of a recording and the definitive proof it would have contained influenced his decision. Burkett called it a "huge problem" Wednesday in an interview with The Advocate. "I haven't spoke to an expert that doesn't believe those interviews should be taped," she said. "If they are doing their job properly, there is no reason why they wouldn't want to tape it." Huffman said he personally favors taping, but the county has a policy against recording victim statements in child sexual abuse cases. Oswalt said what happens before and after the tape is switched off still will be open to scrutiny by defense attorneys. He added it was "dead wrong" to assume a recording would eliminate that same line of questioning. "At the end of the day, you still need to trust the experience and integrity of the social workers and officers doing the case," Oswalt said. Burkett agreed with Oswalt that making a child testify in court is not the ideal outcome for the child. As a defense attorney, Burkett has to find a balance of aggressiveness and tact when questioning young witnesses. She said it's not like questioning an adult witness for the state. "I don't want to do anything I don't have to when a child is on the stand, but I still have to represent my client," she said. Burkett described Licking County as generally a "non-plea-bargaining jurisdiction" but said these type of cases are the exception. Judges are more amenable to a reduced charge or disclosing their sentence in order to facilitate a plea, she said. There's little debate about the social stigma attached to sex offenses committed against children, and Burkett said even a not-guilty finding can't erase public perception of a defendant. "People's lives are changed by the mere allegation of child sex abuse, and it doesn't go away," she said, "which is why I believe these cases should be investigated more thoroughly than any other case." The children, win or lose in court, can bounce back with a strong support system, Weiner said. "Kids are resilient, and with love and support they make it," he said.