Pataskala zoning allows fire-gutted block to be redeveloped. BY CHAD KLIMACK Advocate Reporter March 29, 2009 PATASKALA -- City officials say it might not be that difficult to redevelop a burned-out block downtown. Some officials initially thought it would take a zoning variance to rebuild two gutted buildings, but that might not be the case. "It would appear somebody will be able to build a pretty substantial building there without going through a variance at all," said Diane Harris, the city's planning and zoning director. A March 7 fire, which investigators have labeled an arson, gutted most of a block on the west side of South Main Street, just south of the railroad tracks. Demolition crews subsequently tore down both 341 and 345 S. Main St. One of the buildings contained a heating and cooling businesses and the other was vacant. Mayor Steve Butcher initially thought the city's zoning would make it difficult for the current property owners -- or future ones -- to rebuild. However, he said that does not appear to be the case because the city's Downtown Business zoning designation permits developers to build something similar to what once stood there. In fact, the zoning would permit one of the property owners to build a three-story building containing up to 24,750 square feet. It would allow the other one to build a three-story building with up to 3,000 square feet. One of the property owners, Fred Ashbaugh, has said he intends to take his time in deciding whether to rebuild. He said he needs to take into account the lack of parking downtown and modern safety codes, in addition to the city's zoning. The other property owner, Claude Williams, could not be reached for comment. City officials have spoken to both property owners, and Butcher said Williams might not want to rebuild. "We don't have any knowledge Mr. Williams is looking to develop his property, but we sure hope someone is," Butcher said. Harris, meanwhile, said the city would be willing to help someone find grants to rebuild. "From my own perspective, I would like to see something that is respectful of the past," said Harris, adding she also would like to see someone build something that meshes with the rest of downtown. Butcher, meanwhile, said he would not be surprised if it takes both property owners time to decide how to proceed. A fire gutted he and his wife Nancy's restaurant, Nutcracker Family Restaurant, in 2005, and although the couple decided to reopen, the decision was not easy, he said. "We went through the same struggle," Butcher said. "Do we rebuild or do we take the (insurance) money?"