Doctor returns to Newark after practicing in New Zealand. BY ABBEY ROY Advocate Reporter March 30, 2009 NEWARK -- After spending a year on the other side of the equator, practicing at a rural New Zealand hospital with a total of nine beds, Jackie Underwood is thrilled to return home to Licking Memorial Hospital. "It makes you appreciate here," Underwood said. "It makes you appreciate the United States' private medicine." Underwood, a family practitioner at Licking Memorial from 1982-2006 and afterward in New Hampshire and Minnesota, left in January 2007 to practice in New Zealand after researching a brochure she'd received in the mail about the country. The experience was one she is grateful for, and she hopes to return to New Zealand as a tourist someday to explore the parts of it she missed this time around. Still, certain things New Zealand's culture took some getting used to, she said -- primarily, the country's national health care system. "People have to wait a long time for things," Underwood said, citing examples such as tests or referrals. "Things we take for granted here aren't taken for granted there." In New Zealand, she was one of six "GPs" -- general practitioners -- at the Queen Street Practice. The people in the town where she worked, Wairoa, were very friendly and mostly Maori, an indigenous group similar in culture, history and language to American Indians, Underwood said. Although the town was "very blue-collar," she said, the citizens were kind and appreciated the care they received -- even if it was just a bit at a time. "With the national health care ... people came in for one problem and one problem only," Underwood said. Additional maladies were required to be scheduled for different appointments. Although she had only 10 vacation days during her time in New Zealand, Underwood was able to accomplish a goal she had set for herself: scuba diving off the coast. When she returns as a tourist, she also hopes to tour the northernmost point of the country's North Island and the southernmost point of South Island, she said. In the meantime, she's content to be back at Licking Memorial, practicing with her old partner and enjoying facilities she said are better than any she's worked at. "We have really good quality here," she said. "There's a big focus here on quality."