Valley students trace their family genealogy. BY L.B. WHYDE Advocate Reporter March 30, 2009 HANOVER -- The Licking Valley students in library media specialist Tracy Boehmer's E-Research class sat around the table with laptops and a volunteer from the Licking County Genealogy Society by their side. The room was hushed as eyes scanned the countless screens of information the students were scouring to find out more about their own family histories. Suddenly, there was a shout of success as Blake Holdsworth, 18, and her volunteer helper, Terry Cooperrider, discovered Holdsworth's many times-great-uncle with documents from 1355. Holdsworth was told by her grandfather, who is a poet, that she is related to Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, a popular American poet of the 19th century, whose famous phrases include "ships that pass in the night" and "the patter of little feet." But this discovery confirmed she is related to the poet. "I think it's really neat," Holdsworth said. "I wanted to know exactly how I was related to him." The project is a collaboration between Boehmer and Raynola St. Clair, of the Licking County Genealogy Society. St. Clair wants to get the word out about the importance of knowing family history and the ways to research. The daylong session was open to all students interested in learning more about their ancestors. "It's important to know how to research on line and what resources are available," Boehmer said. "I am finding a lot is available from the Licking County Public Library. The LC Genealogical Society volunteers couldn't be more helpful." Lindsey Evans, 17, a senior, was digging into her family history and found documentation from a ship's passenger list that an ancestor came to this country from Germany in 1852. Senior Carrie Lough, 18, was working with St. Clair and trying to locate her great-great grandfather. Her father had just told her about him, saying he had fought in World War I. It wasn't long before St. Clair could verify that Hugh Jacobson did indeed fight in the war. "It's really interesting. I never thought about genealogy before," Lough said. St. Clair is on a mission to spread the word about importance of family genealogy by giving seminars in the school, churches and one-on-one. Licking Valley High School is conducting another session next year. "I especially want to get kids involved because they are the ones that will carry this on," St. Clair said. Terry Cooperrider, with the Licking County Genealogy Society, talks to Licking Valley senior Blake Holdsworth as they work on tracking Holdworth's family history online. (Matthew Berry, The Advocate)