Salmon collapse caused by natural, manmade causes. The roots of last year's unprecedented decision to close the California coast to salmon fishing took hold three years earlier, in the spring of 2005 when juvenile fish swam through the Golden Gate to an ocean lacking ample food for them, a new report says. On the Farallon Islands bird sanctuary, nearly all the Cassin's auklets, which eat the same kind of food as juvenile salmon, abandoned their nests that year. Gray whales that migrate along the coast were reported emaciated and sea lions were found searching for food far from shore. The salmon that would have returned to spawn in 2007 starved, or were weakened and eaten by other fish or birds. The same thing happened in 2006, causing low numbers to return again last year. Naturally varying ocean conditions were the immediate cause of a fishing season closure for which $170 million in federal disaster funds were made available last year, according to a report released Wednesday by a team of scientists assigned last year to investigate the collapse. But if ocean conditions have always varied, why did the salmon numbers fall so precipitously? The scientists who wrote the report contend that while ocean conditions were bad, California's salmon have been so weakened by loss of habitat, water diversions and reliance on hatcheries that they were especially vulnerable. The report focused on the cause of the commercially valuable workhorse of California's salmon fishery — the Sacramento River fall run of chinook salmon. Those fish may have produced as many as 900,000 spawners in years past, but in 2007 just 88,000 fish returned. Last year was even lower, and regulators expect just 122,000 spawners this fall. The National Marine Fisheries Service, meanwhile, has concluded that state water operations are threatening other salmon runs, steelhead, green sturgeon and the Puget Sound population of salmon-eating orcas — even to the point of extinction. That agency is expected to develop new restrictions on water managers by June. But for the fall run, the biggest problems have been ocean conditions and a heavy reliance on hatcheries to produce fish — hatcheries that are meant to make up for the loss of spawning habitat that is blocked by dams. In particular, California's rivers and streams produced so few wild salmon that as much as 90 percent of the state's salmon, according to one recent study, have evolved in hatcheries. The lack of genetic diversity leaves salmon as vulnerable to ups and downs as an investor without a diversified portfolio. "The system we have of having everything the same, we can expect less variation, and we can expect more booms and busts," said Churchill Grimes, director of a federal fisheries science laboratory in Santa Cruz and co-leader of the study. "You don't have any hedging." In the past, if food was scarce in the spring there might still be a lot of juvenile salmon swimming under the Golden Gate later in the spring when the food might be available. But not so in recent years. The lack of food off the coast in the spring of 2005 and 2006 was caused by the weak upwelling — where nutrient-rich waters off the coast rise toward the surface and, in a good year, cause an explosion of marine life that is especially apparent in places like the Farallon Islands. The head of a major commercial fishing association said the report was on the right track but too heavily focused on ocean problems, for which little can be done. "They got it about half-right," said Zeke Grader, executive director of the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations. "We've got to be able to get these fish down the rivers, through the Delta to the ocean. These are things they have avoided in the past because they're controversial." Grader contends that dams, pumps and water management policies are to blame for the collapse. Ocean conditions have improved in recent years and that, combined with new restrictions on water pumping out of the Delta, could help fuel a recovery next year, Grader said. It's virtually assured that regulators will close the California coastal salmon fishing season to commercial anglers again this year. A final recommendation is expected to be made at a meeting in early April in Millbrae.