Old bills never die, they just wait for votes. Bay Area lawmakers continue to resurrect bills that died in previous Congresses, hoping that having a wider margin of majority in the House and a Democrat in the White House could bring the bills success this time around. For example, Rep. Barbara Lee, D-Oakland, and U.S. Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., today reintroduced their Responsible Education About Life, or REAL, Act, which would authorize federal funding for comprehensive, age-appropriate, medically accurate sex education. For now, such funding is available only for abstinence-only-until-marriage programs, which have been shown to exclude important information about contraception as a protection against pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. "It's time for us to get REAL about sex education," Lee said in her news release. "We should absolutely be teaching young people about abstinence, but we shouldn't be holding back information that can save lives and prevent unwanted pregnancies. Instead of 'abstinence only,' what we're proposing is 'abstinence-plus.' " Elsewhere, Rep. Jerry McNerney, D-Pleasanton, today introduced H.R.1546, the Caring for Veterans with Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 2009. The bill would establish a special panel within the Department of Veterans Affairs to assess the department's capacity to treat veterans who have traumatic brain injuries as well as to make recommendations on developing policies for care and rehabilitation. It also would help establish TBI-specific education and training programs for VA's health professionals. "Many of our soldiers who have been wounded in Iraq have experienced a traumatic brain injury. In fact, traumatic brain injuries are the hallmark injuries of this war," McNerney said in his news release. "It is incumbent on us to ensure that the (Department of Veterans Affairs) is equipped and ready to provide the ongoing services necessary to fully address the impact of traumatic brain injuries." McNerney had introduced a similar bill in May 2007, but that bill never emerged from committee. Tom Del Beccaro of Lafayette, vice chairman of the California Republican Party, today is helping to launch a new political action committee, called the "First Amendment Now Campaign." The PAC is intended to combat what Del Beccaro says are Democratic efforts to curtail conservative political speech. The main issue is the Fairness Doctrine, a Federal Communications Commission policy dating from 1949 but abolished in 1987 that required broadcast license holders to present controversial issues of public importance in a way the FCC considered honest, equitable and balanced. Although President Barack Obama repeatedly has said he opposes reinstating it and the U.S. Senate last month overwhelmingly approved an amendment nixing it, conservatives have continued to rally against it, leading some critics to wonder whether it's an intentional effort to dangle some red meat as a distraction from other issues. Still, Del Beccaro, California Political News and Views publisher Steve Frank and state Sen. Tony Strickland, R-Moorpark, along with a bunch of conservative talk-radio personalities, are launching this new organization, asking for donations of $17.76 "to preserve our freedom." Besides the Fairness Doctrine, they say, they're concerned about Obama's calls for "localism," or requiring broadcast license holders to dedicate some of their airtime to the interests of their local community — obviously a concern for a conservative station such as KSFO-AM/560 that's located in an overwhelmingly liberal media market such as the Bay Area. And they're also worried about Obama's calls for broadcast media ownership diversity, dating to 2007 and echoed now in Congress. The president and supporters claim they're concerned about a lack of female and minority ownership in the broadcast media, but opponents claim it's just another backdoor way to undercut conservative free speech. So, expect to hear a lot about this all across your AM radio dial as this new organization holds a kickoff rally Tuesday in Sacramento, on the Capitol's north steps, and as it moves forward with an effort to gather a million petition signatures that it can present to U.S. Sens. Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein, both of California. The PAC promises to use its money "to preserve the First Amendment; to oppose the Fairness Doctrine, government-imposed diversity and localism; and to oppose candidates that favor the Fairness Doctrine."