Economy affecting high school, college students. Janet Johnson, a guidance counselor at Norfolk High School, works with Brenda Mercado, a junior at Norfolk High, on some college and career options. Johnson said she’s aware of a number of high school students who are having to work part time while going to high school in order to help support their families during this challenging economic times. Thinking of taking a year or two off after high school to work before starting college? If so, Janet Johnson, a guidance counselor at Norfolk High School, has some advice to offer. First, it's important for students to check what will happen to their health insurance if they hope to stay on their parents' coverage but do not attend school full time. That can be a big consideration for some young people. "The other thing that I encourage them to do is if they're going to work full time is to really stop and plan how they're going to budget their money so that they don't get used to having all of that income," Johnson said. "If they return to school and have fewer hours and their expenses have expanded to their whole paycheck, that can be really difficult. "Johnson said it's important for these young people to make a budget so they know how much they can afford to spend and save each month so they do not become over-obligated financially. A period of full-time work can sometimes be an encouragement to certain young people who have postponed college, she said. "Sometimes that year or two off working full time or working at a job that maybe really isn't their favorite thing to do can be kind of motivating," Johnson said. "Going to college becomes an incentive to getting a job that a (young person) wants more then the job they're currently doing. "Johnson said taking time off between high school and college can be a challenge for some students academically. Study habits, formulas in math and concepts in science and English may be forgotten over time, but Johnson said colleges provide tutoring and resource centers for students who need extra help.