Meeting on future of Sunny Meadow a two-way conversation. Monday evening's meeting concerning the future of Sunny Meadow School was a two-way conversation. Not only did school administrators and three school board members get to hear the concerns and questions of parents and supporters of Sunny Meadow, but audience members also heard some background and factual information about the process the district is going through in looking ahead to the next school year and a new budget. Marlene Uhing, superintendent of schools, organized the meeting at the district's central office administration building. Sunny Meadow's part-time principal Chad Boyer and several other administrators were present, as well as three school board members - Brad Krivohlavek, Clark Froehlich and Alfredo Ramirez. The focus of the meeting was a recent administration announcement that the school is being recommended for closure. The recommendation came during a Sunny Meadow Parent Teacher Organization meeting on March 10 - one day after the board of education heard recommendations from the Shaping the Future committee regarding instructional issues. The committee - made up of administrators, staff and parents of students - recommended a district-wide grade configuration, consolidation of some programs and the relocation of certain programs, including the Montessori, Early Childhood and the alternative school. The Montessori program has been considered by the administrative team to move into the Sunny Meadow building with existing Sunny Meadow students dispersed into other elementary schools in Norfolk. Uhing provided information and some background details on the Shaping the Future and administrative team recommendations, as well as to address concerns regarding the committee. "Not every (school) building was represented" on the committee, Uhing said. "We had people volunteer, we had people nominated by staff members, we had principals make recommendations for that. It was pretty much open to everyone who volunteered to get involved. "Uhing stressed that the committee did what it was asked to do - review information gathered from several sources, including community forums, and to make recommendations to the board of education. "They did what they were asked to do and they did a nice job of it. I think it's important to be fair with that group," Uhing said. Uhing also emphasized the need for the district to consolidate some programs because of budget limitations. She said it is the job of the administration and the board of education to consider the overall needs of the district and to think locally but act globally. "What's most important? Are buildings going to be more important to us than keeping people and keeping programs? . . . My personal feeling is, and the administration team recommendation is, that if we can keep people and programs, that's what we're going to try and do," Uhing said. She also addressed the Montessori program and reiterated the fact that it is a public - not a private - program within the district. Uhing also mentioned that it has been a part of the district for longer than Sunny Meadow, which was absorbed by the district when Class I elementary-only schools were required to be absorbed by K-12 districts following the passage of LB126. The focus of Monday's meeting, Uhing said, was to hear the public concerns and questions, not to address directly them at that point. She said all of the information shared Monday night would be taken to the entire board of education for discussion and consideration.