IRS audit finds Butler County employees should have been paying taxes on perks. HAMILTON — Staring down the barrel of a potential $500,000 assessment for back taxes, Butler County Auditor Roger Reynolds said the county is drafting policies to make sure employees pay taxes on fringe benefits in the future. It's unclear why the county wasn't paying these taxes. Former deputy auditor Randy Groves said in 2007 county officials were unaware these items were taxable until shortly before an ongoing Internal Revenue Service audit began that year. That audit is wrapping up now, and is finding that county employees should have paid taxes on roughly $1.5 million for perks such as use of county cars, cell phones and uniforms. Since the county didn't report those perks as income, that bill may soon go to the county. While county leaders agree the county will comply, some also question the wisdom of the tax code. For example, the IRS wants to tax employees who are given county cell phones because they could use them off the clock. But county policy prohibits employees from using cell phones for personal use. "Why is the telephone on my desk any different from my cell phone?" said Commissioner Gregory Jolivette, who called the IRS rule "crazy." The IRS wants to tax the county for roughly $580,000 spent on employee cell phones, roughly $720,000 spent on uniforms and roughly $250,000 for vehicles employees take home. This includes parts of uniforms worn by sheriff's deputies, such as T-shirts and certain pants that could conceivably be worn mowing the lawn at home. But a deputy would be fired for doing so, according to Sheriff's Office Chief Deputy Anthony Dwyer. In addition to deputies, Jolivette said it's vital that utility workers and others in the public have uniforms that clearly identify them as county employees. "Is that worker, when not in the field, supposed to go back to the office and change into a shirt that they own to go out to lunch?" Jolivette said. "It doesn't make sense." Other fringe benefits the IRS wants to tax are tuition reimbursement, travel allowances and parking passes. Reynolds said the original assessment against the county was higher than $500,000 and could go down further as he works with a tax attorney in negotiations with the IRS. "We are currently working on reducing the outstanding amount," he said. But he's not looking for a fight with the tax man. "The IRS has its rules," he said. "It's not for me to decide what those rules are, it's up to me to adhere to those rules as put forward by the IRS and I'll do that to the best of my ability."