Agency puts emphasis on Ohio 63 extension. By emphasizing plans to extend Ohio 63 west as a potential multi-modal project, county officials hope federal funding will become more likely. The Butler County Transportation Improvement District has passed a resolution to designate Ohio 63 as a multi-modal project. The project has the potential of opening up new transportation routes through Monroe, Trenton and Seven Mile. It also has the possibility of connecting the county to major routes such as Interstates 75 and 70 and U.S. 127, as well as rail, said Ron Porter, TID director. With so much emphasis at the federal level for incorporating multiple systems of transportation into projects, the prioritization could help obtain federal funding, said Bill Triick, TID board member and president of the Chamber of Commerce Serving Middletown, Trenton and Monroe. The business community has been overwhelming in support of the project due to the lower transportation costs it would afford them by offering a more direct route, Triick said. "That highway was never supposed to stop at Route 4. There is no major commercialization in the northern part of the county and that is due to lack of infrastructure," he said. The extension has been a priority for the county for many years, but has had issues obtaining funding. The TID submitted the project, estimated to cost $138.2 million, to the Ohio Department of Development for potential federal stimulus funding. The funding is still a major concern for the city of Monroe, which has yet to pass a resolution supporting the extension as requested by the TID. The roadway would reach five miles into the city, according to county engineer Greg Wilkens. "The biggest concern is who is going to maintain that bridge across the river," said Monroe Mayor Robert Routson. "It could potentially be St. Clair Twp., Madison Twp., Trenton or Monroe. Someone has got to assume responsibility to maintain that bridge." While Routson said he would support the project, he indicated the project would be more beneficial to the county and Trenton than Monroe.