Arlington woman ran framing shop, practiced Baha’i faith. ARLINGTON — Jahan Nazarian was born into a Jewish family in western Iran’s Kermanshah province on May 2, 1923. In her 20s, she married Noorallah Moayyad, a man of the Baha’i faith, which advocates the unity of world religious and teaches that leaders such as Jesus, Muhammad and Buddha were all divine prophets. After growing up Jewish, " she had to embrace Christianity and then embrace Islam, and she understood that religions come in succession and improve," said Ms. Moayyad’s daughter-in-law Nadia Moayyad of Southlake. Ms. Moayyad died Saturday of complications from a stroke. She was 85. After 30 years of raising a family and practicing Baha’i in Iran, Ms. Moayyad and her husband moved to North Texas in 1973, Nadia Moayyad said, in part to be near their five children, who were all living in the United States. None has been able to return since the Islamic Republic under Ayatollah Khomeini supplanted the Shah of Iran. "All of the Baha’is had to leave Iran during the revolution because of the religious persecution," Nadia Moayyad said. "We don’t know when we will ever go back until there is religious freedom and then respect for all faiths." Ms. Moayyad spoke only French and Farsi when she moved to Arlington, Nadia Moayyad said. She soon learned English so she could get her driver’s license. The Moayyads started a business, U Frame It, in Arlington. After her husband died in 1992, she allowed two grandchildren to take over the store, although she still worked there for several years. "She was a very kind and loving lady," Nadia Moayyad said. "I think her presence there was always felt with the customers." Ms. Moayyad’s funeral will be observed by a family saddened by the loss but bolstered by the Baha’i belief that death is a new beginning. "It’s not a sad occasion," Nadia Moayyad said. "It’s really a birth to a world where our soul is going to live eternally." Other survivors include sons Parviz Moayyad of Houston, Edward Moayyad of Southlake and Hamid Moayyad of Colleyville; daughters Parvin Davari and Nasrin Sadeghan, both of California; 13 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.