Harding reminds audience not to let fear of the world's economy become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Mayor Michael Harding reminded a chamber of commerce audience Thursday morning not to let its fear of the world's economy become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Harding, speaking to the annual Woodstock District Chamber of Commerce Mayor's Breakfast at the Quality Hotel and Suites, parlayed a few anecdotes of looking fear in the face into one of the themes he touched on during his 45-minute presentation. At first referring to a first time skippering a sailboat on Lake Ontario in rough waters, the mayor told and then returned to an experience piloting a glider. Putting the aircraft into a downward spiral, the craft fell 10 storeys before his instructor yelled over his shoulder 'hard left rudder.' "Just as quickly, the plane corrected itself, because it wants to fly," Harding said, repeating the line with a slight change to end his address. "If we behave totally out of fear, our situation will become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Every one of you is tightening your belts, but just like the glider... the plane wants to fly." He used these two anecdotes as examples of looking fear in the face and confronting it, extending his point that Woodstock is faring better than others within what's happening in the world economy. Showing slides of panic-driven media coverage of past economic slowdowns -- some of which never materialized -- Harding pointed out how media often fuel the fires of fear. A fear through which one should keep a steady hand on the tiller, or the rudder. He laid out his case pointing to information he's referred to in previous Mayor's Breakfasts -- the city's 25 years of action in buying and servicing industrial land. Doing so feeds the strategy to get an increasing share of property taxes from residential into other classes. Speaking to the city's first industrial park, Patullo Ridge, the mayor pointed out how city council in 1983-84 bought the 126 hectares for the park and serviced it with an initial investment of $2 million. It has reaped $4 million in land sales and 845 jobs since, and its industries have paid $2.7 million in property taxes to the city alone. The return on investment for the city took barely two years. Harding also touched on the 21 new projects within the city in 2008, a list capped by the issuance of the building permit for the new Woodstock General Hospital, the story behind which he said had yet to be fully told. He highlighted other city accomplishments such as the Carnegie Library's 100th anniversary, the new recycling and water conservation programs and changes to public transportation. He also highlighted upcoming successes such as the second phase of Cowan Park and the summer's Ontario ParaSport Games in July. He urged those in attendance to tell the city if they're having difficulties, so the city would have the opportunity to do what it can. "If you're doing badly, we're doing badly. We can't tax what isn't there," Harding said. "We want to help, our staff wants to help, council wants to help. We'll even hold your hand for a bit, but you have to ask."