Call her a Recessionista. Tight times are putting the squeeze on Antonella Bruno's spending, but she won't scrimp on putting her best face forward. Call her a recessionista, Bruno, 54, has cut back on clothing purchases, facials and eating out so she can keep up appearances -- and her Botox injections. "I'm cutting back on treats so I can treat my face," says the attractive master colourist and makeup artist. Bruno figures she's getting a big boost for her buck -- she works in the ultra-competitive and youthful beauty industry, and believes in looking her best in order to attract and keep clients. "It makes me feel good and when I feel good I'm more creative, successful," says Bruno, adding that Botox is an instant pick-me-up, physically and mentally, and its benefits last far longer than any facial or expensive meal out. Bruno isn't the only one refusing to forfeit a facial fix. Dr. David Ellis reports an increase in patients getting non-invasive "touchie-uppies" in the past month. "It gives people an emotional and physical perk -- it's an affordable luxury." Expensive surgical procedures are down, he says, but not demand for treatments like injectable fillers, Botox and laser. "Five patients cancelled surgery in January," says the Toronto facial plastic surgeon. Most can't afford time off work to recover and are postponing costly invasive surgery -- up to $20,000 plus -- until the economy stabilizes. Cheaper and cheerful non-surgical "liquid facelifts," combining Botox and Juvederm dermal filler, are popular and can offer "instantaneous results, a real wow factor," says Ellis. In a poll by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, 73% of surgeons report an increased or stable demand for Botox, chemical peels and fillers, while 62% report a decrease in surgical procedures. Dr. Wayne Perron, a Calgary plastic surgeon, reports business is steady on all fronts. In this hyped-up doom and gloom, Botox is "one of the things that we soothe ourselves with." Today, cosmetic procedures are viewed as an investment in staying competitive in a cut-throat job market. Freshening up a resume just isn't enough -- many seek an injection of freshness, a glow and a boost of confidence too. Bruno, owner of Decree in Colour salon, says she got tired of feeling and looking withered and weary, so in 2007 she opted for an injectable filler to add volume to her cheeks and Botox on her forehead. She plans to do around her eyes on her next quarterly visit to Ellis. She says that her clients look to her for inspiration. "You have to be the power of example," says Bruno, who embraces a healthy and active lifestyle. Dr. Barry Lycka isn't surprised people aren't giving up their Botox. "Once people have it done, it becomes terribly addictive." People value looking good and Botox offers instant results with no downtime -- "you look fresh, like you've been on a vacation for six weeks," says the Edmonton cosmetic dermatologist, adding business is at 100% capacity. Invasive cosmetic surgery has been on the decline for the past 10 years "as people are looking for quicker, better and easier procedures, and now the economy is forcing that even more," he says. Many women view cosmetic procedures as a way to get a competitive edge in the workplace, reveals a survey by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. 13% would consider having a cosmetic medical procedure specifically to make them more confident and more competitive in the job market. 3% say they've already had a cosmetic procedure to increase their perceived value in the workplace. 73% believe youthful appearance plays a part in getting hired, getting a promotion or getting new clients. 80% think having a cosmetic procedure can boost a person's confidence. Antonella Bruno would prefer to spend money on Botox injections than spend it on other areas of her life.