Luminaries don't yet see light. If a recent blue-ribbon confab for business leaders, analysts and economists is any indication, Canadians who believe the Great Crash will be over soon should probably think about changing meds. An international poll just out shows that despite all the economic doom and gloom -- not to mention terminal winter blahs -- Canadians are among the most optimistic people in the world. The Environics survey, for instance, found 70% of Canucks don't expect the recession to last more than two years. But among those most likely in the know, there is a growing crescendo of expert opinion that anyone who still sees the global economic glass as half-full must be drinking the other half, and it ain't water. Yesterday, Parliament's watchdog of fiscal funny business, federal budget officer Kevin Page, told a Commons committee the Conservative government's latest projections are already being washed away in a tidal wave of red ink. He predicts federal deficits and unemployment will be far higher than government projections as the economy continues to tank. Bank of Canada governor Mark Carney, who recently predicted the economy would bounce back by the end of the year, is now signalling he, too, is tossing the rose-coloured glasses. But the really depressing news came out of a closed-door symposium in Toronto this week exploring "what lies ahead for the global economy." The conclusion is the current global malaise will be much deeper, last much longer, and be far more complicated to cure than most governments are willing to admit. The road to recovery, the experts are saying, is anything but around the corner. Think at least three to five years away. The iconic David Dodge, former Bank of Canada governor and a federal deputy minister of finance for years before that, told the ballroom full of corporate execs that the economy is toast this year, and going to get worse before it gets any better. "The year 2009 is going to be a very dark page in economic history," Dodge told the pinstripe crowd that became decidedly downcast as the day progressed. Dodge agrees with the need for major deficit spending to keep the economy moving in the wake of both business and consumer spending going to the bottom. "There is virtually nothing policy-makers can do in the coming months that will do anything to affect (economic) outcomes this year," Dodge said. Similarly, there will be no instant miracles from the central banks' cutting their key lending rates to near zero. Dodge said even in good economic times when the market is awash with borrowing and spending, interest rate cuts can take nine months or more to have their desired impact. That delay could be even longer in this so-called "balance sheet recession," when economies shift from borrowing and spending to saving and debt reduction. One result, Dodge said, would likely be global unemployment continuing to climb into 2010. Other luminaries speaking at the Toronto symposium included Richard Koo, chief economist for Nomura Securities in Tokyo; Martin Wolf, associate editor of the Financial Times of London; and William A. Macdonald, a Toronto-based strategic consultant and one of this country's engaging thinkers. While they didn't address Canada's economic problems directly -- the fiscal fate of this country, like others, is in the hands of the U.S. and China -- it seems clear the odds of the federal government returning to balanced budgets in the next five years are slim to nil. As for your decimated stock portfolio, don't expect it to bounce back to where it was anytime soon -- apparently about 40% of its value was just air in the bubble now burst.