Mixed local reaction towards Ontario budget (click for video). Elliot Ferguson photoJim Harrison of the Woodstock District Chamber of Commerce says it is likely the proposed harmonized sales tax will cost consumers more money. The local reaction to Thursday's Ontario budget speech could best be described as mixed. While local political and business leaders liked aspects of the Liberal budget, there were serious misgivings about the harmonization of the provincial sales tax with the federal GST. The most scathing local indictment of this harmonization came from Oxford MPP Ernie Hardeman, who characterized this shift as the largest tax increase in the province's history. While Hardeman was supportive of the concept of a harmonization, saying he had no argument against more efficient methods of taxation, he was critical of the Liberal government's approach. "This will be a massive burden on the average citizens of the Province of Ontario," he said following Finance Minister Dwight Duncan's budget speech. Because this harmonization will result in the inclusion of goods and services previously exempt from provincial tax, including gasoline and heating fuel, Hardeman said Ontarians would suffer an eight per cent price increase on many staples. The result, he said, would be the generation of an additional $2.3 billion in annual sales tax revenue by 2012. "That's the reality of it, and that's all on the backs of average citizens," the Progressive Conservative agriculture critic said. For Jim Harrison, the president of the Woodstock District Chamber of Commerce, the harmonized sales tax represented a mixed bag. While harmonization has long been a position of the Ontario Chamber of Commerce, Harrison was concerned that adding an eight per cent sales tax to previously exempted goods and services would mean an unwelcome increase to operating costs to Ontario businesses. "When you add that one key element, it really shakes your opinion of the overall effect," he said. "The increased tax burden on the new items, we'll have to wait and see what happens." Harrison suggested some of the mitigation measures intended by the provincial government to offset this potential burden, including personal income tax reductions and one-time thrice yearly "rebate" cheques, implied the impact of harmonization could be fairly significant. "There's an inherent feeling the blow is bigger than the reform," he said. Like Hardeman, Harrison suggested the provincial government should have looked at reducing its portion of the harmonized sales tax to offer Ontarians something in the range of 10 per cent to 11 per cent. At the same time, Harrison said the Liberal government was wise to delay the institution of the single sales tax until July 2010. "That will give everyone some time to understand the process," he said. While the impact of this new "single, value-added tax" was viewed with some trepidation, local leaders were more impressed with other budget-speech announcements. The promise that garnered the most local praise was the allocation of $32.5 billion in new infrastructure spending, an investment that Duncan estimated would create 300,000 jobs. Even as a member of the Opposition, Hardeman couldn't fault the Liberal government for putting more money into hospitals, roads, schools and affordable housing. "I can't see anything ... but good (coming from the infrastructure investment)," Harrison agreed. "I feel quite positive about that." While cautiously optimistic about the announcement of the infrastructure money, Oxford's municipal leaders had questions about the actual details of the eventual disbursement. Noting that his town had been overlooked by provincial infrastructure funding programs in the past, Tillsonburg Mayor Stephen Molnar said his council would have to ensure "we get fair, equitable and sustainable treatment." " (We) embrace the opportunity for a larger portion of our residents' federal and provincial tax dollars ... to assist in the investment in their own infrastructure," Molnar said. Woodstock Mayor Michael Harding was also cautious in his appraisal of the promised infrastructure money, saying the municipality would likely not receive the details for some time. Like Molnar, Harding hopes the substance of any new infrastructure funding programs would be devoid of any cumbersome provisions. "Hopefully, they will follow very, very quickly and hopefully there isn't a lot of red tape," the mayor said. "There appears to be a lot of negotiation going on in the background on how quickly the money will flow and what those amounts will be. Harding, though, was impressed with the provincial government's promise to provide more than $1 billion for a combination of social housing renovations and new affordable housing projects over the next two years. Harding, an advocate for affordable housing, applauded these "additional supports" for helping the province's most vulnerable. "These are badly needed across the province and in Oxford," the Woodstock mayor said. "As are the 4,500 affordable housing units that are coming, according to their math." Hardeman, though, did express concerns about the long-term impact of the overall government spending. While acknowledging the need for spending to stimulate the sluggish economy, he warned the $14.1-billion deficit represented by the 2009 budget would be the highest in the province's history. Oxford's political and business leaders were also positive about the provincial budget's promise to reduce both personal income and corporate income taxes. Starting in July 2010, Ontarians will receive a 16.5 per cent tax cut on the first $38,848 of taxable income while most businesses will enjoy a corporate tax decrease of 14.3 per cent to 18 per cent. While he approved these tax cuts, Hardeman said his party had advocated a similar policy for the past several years as a tool to encourage additional investment in Ontario. "It's something our party has been telling them since 2003," Hardeman said. "I'm just disappointed it took five years to find that answer." Harrison simply described the tax cuts as "good long-term strategies for growth," saying the benefits wouldn't be fully realized for a few years. Molnar, while supportive of strategic tax cuts, wondered why these measures weren't being introduced a little sooner. Mentioning the promised "rebates," including the one-time $1,000 cheque for eligible Ontario families, Molnar said these stimulus measures should be implemented in the short term. "If it's about stimulus, that means money in the pocket," he said. "Do it as son as possible. If you're cutting a cheque, cut it now."