Will and grace. The wills and estate lawyer -- who has built his practice resolving inheritance disputes -- is opening up to help others learn from his front-row seat to squabbling siblings, wrenching relationships and fractured families. "Anybody out there who is fighting with their family, that thinks that their life is so difficult, who hates their job -- you may change your life when you read stories like that and you realize what life is all about," Kotzer said from his Toronto office. In the book, Where There's an Inheritance: Stories From the World of Two Wills Lawyers (Continental Atlantic Publications), Kotzer shares the stories he says gave himself and co-author Barry Fisher a deeper appreciation for life. Given the recession, Kotzer's getting media attention from CNN to the New York Times for the practical advice gleaned from tales of greed, rage, anger, love and empathy. The University of Windsor Law graduate said he often sees people who are at the end of their life, who need to decide important details such as the fate of their family. One woman, Kotzer said, had terminal cancer and he had to ask her who would raise her seven-year-old daughter once she died. "I can't give her up," she told Kotzer, and started to cry. She continued to weep in his office. "Who's going to know the way I comb her hair? "Who's going to know the way I read her stories and the way I pinch her nose?" the mother asked desperately. The ordeal was even tough for Kotzer, who admits he often has to fight to hold back tears. That simple life lesson -- learning to appreciate what you've got -- is not uncommon in Kotzer's practice. He said one rainy, cold, windy day he had to meet a client in her car because she wasn't mobile enough to come into the office. It was the first time she left the hospital in a year and when Kotzer joined her in a car out front to discuss her will, her hand was out the window, collecting the raindrops that poured down. "We looked at that day as two totally different things. To me it was frustration, work and aggravation, and to her it was probably the most beautiful day that she will see for the rest of her life." His latest book follows two others, The Family Fight: Planning To Avoid It, and The Family War: Winning the Inheritance Battle, written to help families understand the laws and documents that govern wills and inheritance. Special for Sun Media readers, if you buy the book before April 15 you will receive Family Fight, Planning to Avoid It, for free plus shipping. Kotzer also offers free will reviews in Ontario to make sure that a will is up to date and not a recipe for disaster. In some cases, the law is not enough to solve inheritance disputes, so Kotzer relies on another route. He is also a professional songwriter who writes to touch the hearts of people. "To me, the most important thing is our family and I'm seeing it's being destroyed in front of me. I'm on a mission to save families through inheritance disputes," said Kotzer, who also delivers his message through song. One of his songs, Photos In A Drawer, is often played while he is doing radio shows. Sometimes people need to realize what is really important to them, he said. Kotzer also uses music as a vehicle to compensate for the constraints he feels while working with the law. Joan & Donna are now writers, editors and publishers of the Green Brain Storm Blog and Paper.