Arlington council OKs drilling near residential area. ARLINGTON — The City Council voted 8-1 Tuesday to approve a gas-drilling site on a picturesque horse farm in north Arlington. Titan Operating was granted a specific-use permit to drill on 3.5 acres of Martha Rose May Martin’s 40-acre horse farm at North Cooper Street and Green Oaks Boulevard. Titan, which has not drilled in Arlington before, plans to drill 20 wells on Martin’s farm over five years. The company spent more than $23 million acquiring mineral rights from 2,200 property owners surrounding the site. On Tuesday night, more than 200 residents packed City Hall to weigh in on the proposal, most to voice support. Among those in favor of the site was former Mayor Elzie Odom, who was one of 2,200 property owners in the North Arlington Neighbors association who signed a lease with Titan last year. Martin told the council that the decision to allow drilling on her property, which features open pastures, rolling hills and grazing horses, was not taken lightly. "I have a profound love and connection with my property, which has been owned by my family for six generations," she said. "This property is a little bit of heaven for my family and neighbors." Councilman Robert Rivera, who represents southeast Arlington, voted against the permit, saying he shared concerns about safety and property values with residents near the site. Three months ago, the city’s Planning and Zoning Commission unanimously rejected Titan’s request. Commissioners did not publicly comment on why they denied the permit, but city staff and council members have expressed concerns about the gas wells’ impact on the land’s future development, the visibility of the wells from busy Cooper Street, and the effects of an industrial operation on property values and quality of life. Cliff Mycoskie, who presented Titan’s permit request to council, said the gas company has agreed to implement several measures that will reduce the operation’s impact. Among them, he said: Titan will use urban drilling rigs, which require less energy to run and can be assembled more quickly, put up sound buffers, limit truck traffic during peak hours and install a masonry fence and landscaping along Cooper Street before drilling begins, which could be as soon as next year. Mycoskie pointed out that farther north, Huffines Communities wants to build a master planned community on undeveloped land across from the city landfill that already has numerous natural gas drilling sites. The community, called Viridian, will feature a town center and homes ranging from $300,000 to more than $1 million. "If it worked at Viridian, it can work at this site, too," Cliff said. Those who spoke in opposition, many of whom live within 600 feet of the site, said they were concerned about the safety of living so close to an industrial site and the negative effects on property values. They also said they were disappointed to lose the peace and great view they have from living so close to the farm. Melinda Vanderberg, who lives on Bucknell Drive, urged the council to consider alternate sites away from the neighborhood. "This site is literally in my back yard. There are many families and they live dangerously close to this industrial drill site that is going to go on for seven years," she said. Resident Landry Burdine said nearby drilling sites on Washington Drive and at Rolling Hills Country Club could extract the gas. "This is not a necessary drill site. There are ample drills sites to serve this area," said Burdine, a developer who put together the deal to acquire and demolish the dilapidated Madison Creek and Hampton Hills apartment complexes on Washington Drive to make way for a natural gas drilling site. Supporters of the permit said they believe Titan will keep its promises to minimize the effects of the drilling and preserve the horse farm’s character. Charles Parker said that residents have the right to access their minerals and that royalties would benefit people affected by the recession or are living on a fixed income. "These rights are all inheritable. Whatever is pumping out of that ground when I’m dead and done is going to go to my children," Parker said. Ellen Boyer, North Arlington Neighbors organizer, said she supports natural gas drilling as a way for the country to move away from dependence on foreign energy. "We have a responsibility to develop the natural gas resources with which we have been blessed," Boyer said. "I know our development in north Arlington is only a baby step, but it’s a step in the right direction."