Author to speak about Neches River. Richard Donovan, author of “Paddling the Wild Neches,” will be speaking in Athens on Monday at the monthly meeting of the East Texas Environmental Concerns Organization. One of Texas’ last wild rivers, the Neches forms the eastern boundary of Henderson County and meanders over 400 miles from northwest of Tyler to the Gulf of Mexico near Beaumont. The Neches and its bottomland forests are home to a variety of wildlife -- bald eagles, deer, squirrels, otters, wood ducks, mallards, wild turkeys, and colorful songbirds. The public is invited to this event. For hundreds of years the Neches River Valley has nourished a succession of peoples -- Caddo and Atakapa Indians, then Spanish, French, and Mexican explorers, next early “Texian” settlers, finally the Anglo-Americans who came in droves to the new state of Texas. The Neches sustains half a million people, meeting the needs of municipalities and industries. Along the way, the river nourishes the forests of the Neches River National Wildlife Refuge, the Davy Crockett National Forest with its Big Slough Wilderness and Neches Overlook, the Angelina National Forest with its Upland Island Wilderness, the popular Martin Dies Jr. State Park, the famed Big Thicket National Preserve, and thousands of acres of private land. In June 2006, the director of the U.S. Fish and wildlife service gave approval to the Neches River National Wildlife Refuge on a beautiful stretch of the upper Neches River in Anderson and Cherokee counties. With the donation of the first acre of land to the refuge the following August, the Refuge was officially established. Now the Texas water development board and the city of Dallas, who want to build a reservoir on the Refuge site, are suing the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to try and overturn the Refuge. The 25,000 acres proposed for inclusion within the proposed refuge boundary contain some of the best remaining and least disturbed bottomland hardwood forest habitat left in Texas, rated as “Priority 1” by the USFWS. Adding land to the Neches River National Wildlife Refuge will protect vital habitat for wildlife, including waterfowl and migratory songbirds, provide wonderful hunting and other outdoor recreational opportunities for the public, and serve as an economic boon to surrounding communities. The 540 national wildlife refuges in the lower 48 states fueled more than $809 million in sales. With bird watching and canoeing the fastest-growing nature activities in the state, East Texas has much to gain from the Neches River National Wildlife Refuge. The monthly meeting of the East Texas Environmental Concerns Organization will be at 6 p.m. Monday at First Presbyterian Church in Athens. The meeting room is in the main building inside the back door.