Fleeing suspect arrested. A 36-year-old Palestine man who successfully eluded authorities following a weekend traffic stop was arrested Wednesday at an Anderson County residence. James Ernest Barnett, 36, of Palestine was arrested without incident around 9:30 a.m. Wednesday at a residence on CR 367 off of U.S. 79, approximately 2 miles east of Palestine, according to Anderson County Sheriff Greg Taylor. The arrest was made after Anderson County Crimestoppers had received a tip from a private citizen concerning Barnett’s whereabouts. Taylor said he and about five other representatives of the Anderson County Sheriff’s Office “swooped in on” the house after receiving the tip. “He (Barnett) didn’t have a chance to run,” Taylor said. “We had him out of the house before he knew what happened.” Three other male subjects inside the residence were not arrested, the sheriff added. Late Sunday morning, Barnett led an Anderson County sheriff’s deputy on a high speed chase into Freestone County after he had been stopped in an “older model” Ford Explorer for “a non-visible registration sticker” inside the Palestine city limits, according to Taylor. After failing to provide proof of liability insurance, authorities have said Barnett declined the officer’s request to step out of his vehicle and then sped off -- first leading the officer on several city streets before heading out of town in a westwardly direction on U.S. 79. The driver took the U.S. 84 turnoff towards Fairfield before turning onto FM 489 and then onto Freestone County Road 360, according to the sheriff. Wright ultimately lost control of his squad car on the county road, with the suspect continuing approximately 2 more miles before abandoning his vehicle and fleeing on foot, according to Taylor. A Texas Parks & Wildlife Department game warden who had joined the pursuit attempted to apprehend the suspect, but lost him in the woods, the sheriff stated. At the time of Barnett’s arrest Wednesday morning, Taylor said a 1996 Chevrolet Z-71 pickup was parked in the driveway of the residence. The vehicle was reported stolen Sunday in Freestone County, approximately 2 miles from where the suspect abandoned the Ford Explorer, according to the sheriff. “Inside that truck in a cigarette package in the console was a small amount of methamphetamine that he claimed,” Taylor said. Barnett already had a “blue warrant” which reflects a parole violation, according to Taylor. Barnett was transported to the Anderson County Jail following his arrest and will be charged locally with evading arrest/detention with a motor vehicle and possession of a controlled substance less than 1 gram, the sheriff stated. The suspect also faces unauthorized use of a motor vehicle charges in Freestone County in relation to the stolen truck. --------- Paul Stone may be contacted via e-mail at pstone@palestineherald.com