Man gets two years in state jail facility for fleeing from police. Man gets two years in state jail facility for fleeing from police A 54-year-old Palestine man has been sentenced to the maximum two years in a state jail facility after pleading guilty to fleeing from Palestine police approximately 1 1/2 years ago. Gary Wilson, 54, of Palestine was sentenced to two years in a state jail facility Friday at the Anderson County Courthouse by 87th State District Judge Deborah Oakes Evans. In mid-January, Wilson had pled guilty to the state jail felony offense of evading arrest with a motor vehicle, stemming from an August 2007 incident during which he fled from local police after they had received a report of an intoxicated driver, according to Stanley Sokolowski, assistant district attorney for Anderson County. On Aug. 17, 2007, Palestine police say they received a call from a “concerned citizen” who reported that Wilson was intoxicated and operating a motor vehicle. After receiving the call, Palestine police officer Gary Rayford attempted to stop a 2001 Cadillac near the intersection of West Palestine Avenue and Delmar Street, according to Sokolowski. “The vehicle (which was operated by Wilson) refused to stop,” according to the assistant district attorney. The vehicle’s driver ran multiple stop signs and red lights and also traveled in the wrong lane of traffic at one point, he added. Wilson ultimately pulled into the driveway of a residence in the 1200 block of North John Street, according to Sokolowski. “He (Wilson) got out of the vehicle...he didn’t stop and they (officers) had to take him to the ground,” the assistant district attorney said. Officers believed Wilson to be intoxicated and discovered “at least two open containers” in his vehicle, Sokolowski said. Wilson already had an “extensive criminal history relating to DWIs” and also was sentenced to five years in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice on an arson conviction in the mid-1990s, according to Sokolowski. Wilson was sentenced Friday following a hearing of approximately 45 minutes. Although receiving the maximum state jail sentence, he was not assessed a fine. Some may portray the August 2007 incident as a “victimless crime” since no one was injured, but Sokolowski disagrees, saying innocent peoples’ lives are put at risk when an intoxicated driver flees from police and runs red lights and stop signs in the process. “My feeling is it’s one of the most dangerous things that can occur out there,” Sokolowski said. --------- Paul Stone may be contacted via e-mail at pstone@palestineherald.com