Crestwood School Board anticipates budget amendment. A few unexpected expenses might require the Crestwood Board of Education to amend their budget in May, Superintendent Lorraine Bailey informed the board Wednesday night during the regular meeting. Bailey explained if the budget is off by a certain percentage, law requires the budget be amended. Tuition to Paris High School was more than expected this year, which Bailey said was due to higher costs divided by fewer students. An additional teacher was also hired midyear. Despite the unexpected expenses, Bailey said the school has “done very well staying in line with what we budgeted.” During the meeting, board members also started looking at summer projects. The roof over the cafeteria and kitchen will be replaced as well as patch work to the rest of the roof with the bid being awarded to Martinsville Roofing at a cost of $38,117. The roof project was approved for Health/Life/Safety funds. The school is also in need of a new chair lift. The current lift is not operable at this time. The bid was awarded to Garaventa Lift, who originally installed the lift at the school. Bailey said the company is very reputable. The H/L/S amendment for the lift has not yet been approved, Bailey noted; however the preliminary paper work came back with no concerns. If the amendment is not approved, the money will come from the Operations and Maintenance Fund. Several years ago, the board looked into tuckpointing the school. The bids came back higher than anticipated and the board decided to hold off on the project. Now, the problem is getting worse and tuckpointing is inevitable. The project bid was awarded to Midwest Restoration of Paris in the amount of $12,680. The board also voted to replace to busses through Midwest Transit. The school will lease a two year old 65 passenger bus at a cost of $60,100 before trade-in at a value of $6,600; and another two-year-old 65 passenger bus at a cost of $59,700 before trade-in of $6,100. The school calendar was approved for next year and is the same calendar as District 95. The first day of school will be Aug. 17 and the final day of school, if no snow days are used, will be May 26. During the administrative report, Bailey reminded the board preschool and kindergarten screenings will be held March 17, 18 and 19 for all students in the district who will be 3 or 4 by Sept. 1 for preschool and for those who will be five by Sept. 1 for kindergarten. Anyone who has not yet made an appointment is encouraged to do so. Following an executive session, the board accepted the resignation of Ashley Nickles as girls basketball coach and hired Sarah Crippes as the replacement.