Shiloh pondering changes, part 1. HUME – A member delegation of the Shiloh School District Curriculum Committee met with the board of education Monday night to discuss the fate of Block 8 scheduling. Principal Mark Hettmansberger presented the main report and said the committee has serious misgivings about continuing with Block 8 for high school students. He noted current research is divided on the value of the scheduling system that uses double periods on alternating days to teach subject matter. According to Hettmansberger, the research indicates that Block 8 is most successful in schools that have student bodies composed of high achieving individuals from affluent backgrounds. It seems to be less viable in districts like Shiloh where more than 30 percent of the students have individualized learning plans and the free and reduced lunch count approaches 50 percent, indicating a significant poverty rate. “From the management standpoint, the block schedule is real easy,” said Hettmansberger. “It makes my life easier because we don’t have so many period changes during the day, but I don’t believe it’s best for our students.” Hettmansberger said the curriculum committee cast a unanimous vote to abandon Block 8 in favor of the more traditional eight-period day. The vote, however, was split when the faculty was provided the opportunity to express an opinion. Slightly more than half of the teachers favored the eight-period day, and the other half was divided between those wanting a modified Block 8 and those desiring to retain the present system. Other members of the curriculum committee spoke to the identified weaknesses of the Block 8 system. District technology coordinator Terry Sullivan said his perception is that Block 8 results in too much down time as the teachers commonly give students 15 to 20 minutes at the end of each double-period to start on assignments. “The idea being that responsible students will take advantage of that time,” said Sullivan, adding the reality is much different as he sees computer use and on-line access spike near the end of each period. Board member Dana Hales, a retired educator, questioned the validity of faulting Block 8 for the students using the end of the period time in unproductive ways. “That last 15-to-20-minute shut down is a teacher guidance issue,” said Hales. “They shouldn’t be getting on the computers to play.” Hettmansberger agreed, while pointing out that none of Shiloh’s teachers ever received training for using Block 8 effectively after it was adopted in the 1990s and new teachers graduating from college are not familiar with the approach either. “If we continue with it, I will be coming back to the board asking for money to do proper training,” said Hettmansberger. Math teacher Debra Akers said the length of the classes contributes to the students shutting down at end of the period. “When you get into algebra II and trigonometry and are trying to cover three-to-four classes (in the double period), the kids get glassy-eyed trying to learn five new things,” said Akers. “At the end of the lesson, the kids consider class over and put their books away.” Shiloh’s other math teacher, Corey White, added that current college teacher preparation classes are stressing the need to break material into smaller blocks for presentation in a more condensed time. He recounted participating in a recent college exercise that set a preferred time limit of 30 minutes for presenting the information. Guidance counselor Amber Grenda said the every-other-day approach in Block 8 is a real detriment to students who have difficulty retaining information. She said such students need the repetition of daily classes to avoid forgetting what they learn. “We’re kind of hoping this will help our lower level students remember,” said Grenda. “I’ve also heard from our higher achieving students that they don’t like the 20-minute-end-of-class which breaks down.” District superintendent Gary Lewis added switching to an eight-period day will reintroduce a study hall into the schedule – something not possible in the Block 8 system. According to Lewis, a dedicated study hall period may prove helpful as the district copes with the unfunded Response to Intervention (RTI) mandate requiring schools to take steps that provide early identification of when students are struggling in a class and then intervene to correct the problem before a student gets so far behind that an individual learning plan is needed. The superintendent foresees using the study hall period for helping students identified through RTI get back on track. Hettmansberger said switching to the eight-period day will require Shiloh High School students to take a minimum of seven classes per term to meet the school’s graduation requirement. He was not enthralled with offering a study hall to all students. “The administration will strongly push students to take eight classes,” said Hettmansberger. Board president Mike Means suggested that board members be prepared to decide the issue at the April meeting.