City supports Trees for Tomorrow Project. The City of Paris supports the new Trees for Tomorrow Project in Paris. Project coordinator David Dick attended Monday’s city council meeting to ask for support for the project. Dick said the project did not need monetary help for the project, but asked for involvement through planting and watering the trees. The goal is to plant 25 to 30 native shade trees, not ornamental trees, on the boulevards and street sides (not backyards) of private yards in the spring of 2009. In addition, Dick hopes have another 50 to 60 trees planted this fall and each fall thereafter. City grounds/maintenance supervisor Teresa Bach jumped at the chance to be a part of the project. Bach is also a Master Gardener, who are also helping with the project. The Edgar County Community Foundation agreed to be the custodians of the funds for the project, and also agreed to kick-start the project by funding the first 25 trees to be planted. Dick was inspired to begin the project by the plaque at Schwartz park that reads “The true meaning of life is to plant trees, under whose shade you do not expect to sit.” “[Trees] provide shade by moderating the radiant energy from the sun, they absorb carbon dioxide and other pollutants and give off oxygen in exchange. Who could ask for more?” Dick said during the city council meeting. To keep the project going, donations will be needed from the community. “Every tax deductible dollar will be used directly for the purchase of and planting of trees,” said Dick. Anyone who would like to contribute to the project should send donations to the Edgar County Community Foundation in care of Citizens National Bank in Paris. Funds should be earmarked for the Trees for Tomorrow Project. Anyone who would like to see if their property qualifies for tree planting is encouraged to contact the city. The Edgar County Community Foundation agreed to be the custodians for funds for the new Trees for Tomorrow (TFT) of Paris. The foundation is also funding the planting of the first 25 trees. Contributions from the public are necessary to keep the project going. Donations may be sent to the Edgar County Community Foundation in care of Citizens National Bank. Pictured, left to right, are TFT coordinator David Dick, Master Gardener and city grounds/maintenance supervisor Teresa Bach, and foundation board members Ned Jenison and Maryann Pearman. (Beacon-News Photo/Denise Cravens)