Class has lesson on history, art. Paris and Henry County is rich in both history and art opportunities and the Lee Academy for the Arts is an example of how both are thriving here. The 2008-09 Leadership Henry County class had the opportunity to tour the Lee Academy building during its Wednesday session. Every time I visit Lee Academy, I am impressed by its beautiful hardwood floors and old-fashioned facade. The feet of thousands of youngsters have trod on those floors, and as we recently heard, the feet of little ones still grace the classrooms there where dancing, drama and music classes keep the school alive with artistic activity. The school also has a wide variety of youth and adult classes such as painting, pottery, photography, ballroom dancing, yoga and piano lessons. Ray Harding of the Lee School Association gave a presentation showing how far the school building has come since 2001 when the association formed a committee dedicated to preserving the school. These people who invested their hearts and souls into seeing the school brought back to its original glory were former students of the school and also people who had a love of Paris history. In 2002, a feasibility study was done to determine the best use for the building, and in 2003 the association decided to use the building for the arts. “We went about this in a pretty organized way,” said Harding. “Somebody suggested making luxury apartments out of the building, but we didn’t want to do that because it would ruin the flavor of the school.” The first two classrooms opened for use in 2004. Since then, the entire building has undergone renovation with several upstairs classrooms being rented out to local artists. The Lunchroom at Lee is the most recent exciting renovation to the building, which is a room with a kitchen, stage and audio system that can be rented for special events like dinners and receptions, performances and meetings. As Harding showed the class before and after pictures of the renovations, audible gasps could be heard because of the remarkable transformation of this historical house of learning. Lee Academy serves about 300 students a year and teachers are both paid and volunteer. The total cost of the renovation was $350,000; the debt remaining is about $43,000. Harding said the association hopes to receive more members who want to financially help the school, and also hopes the Lunchroom rentals will be able to help the school financially. “We have two hundred members, which is pretty good, and we appreciate all of them,” he said. More information about the school can be found on its Web site at . We also met with Stephanie Tayloe, county archivist, who showed us several interesting documents in the county archives located at the Central Community Service Center on Jones Bend Road Extended. Some of the documents there date back to almost 200 years ago. “The archives here are a hidden treasure of Henry County,” said Tayloe. “People do not realize the importance of these papers.” She has been involved with archiving the county records for about 12 years. “I love it and I hope I can do it for the rest of my life,” she said. The boxes and boxes of records previously were stored in the attic of the Henry County Courthouse where pigeons, mice and other varmints wreaked havoc on them for years. About 14 years ago, the process of cleaning and archiving the records began, and even though countless hours of work have been dedicated to the cause, there is still work to be done. “It’s been a labor of love,” said Tayloe. Linda Dunlap also works with the archives. “We work all of the time and it’s one hundred percent volunteer,” said Dunlap. The archivists transcribe the documents, type them up and file them on a computer and make books out of them — some of which can be purchased. Tayloe showed several documents which have historical significance and several boxes of estate settlements going back to the 1820s. “I’ve never met a Southerner yet who wasn’t done wrong by the will,” Tayloe said smiling. “They squabble over everything right down to the last iron skillet.” Earlier in the day the class also heard a presentation by David Webb, county historian; toured the Krider Performing Arts Center; toured the genealogy department at Rhea Public Library; heard a presentation by Mary Lodge, Paris-Henry County Arts Council director; and toured the Paris-Henry County Heritage Center with director Norma Steele (a.k.a. “Naughty Norma”). Art is imitating life and history is in the making in Henry County.