Man faces child rape charges. A Paris man was arrested Sunday afternoon on five counts of rape of a child. Jonathan J. “Wee Man” McDaniel, 19, of 1205 Lone Oak Road Lot 12, was arrested at Paris City Hall by Paris Police Department Sgt. Ricky Watson. According to a report by PPD Patrolman Jeramye Whitaker, McDaniel allegedly had inappropriate sexual contact with a girl less than 8 years of age Sunday. McDaniel’s bond was set at $100,000 and he is scheduled to appear Tuesday in Henry County General Sessions Court. In other incidents: More information has been released on the Wednesday arrest of a Paris woman for child abuse and neglect, as was originally reported in Thursday’s Post-Intelligencer. According to a report by PPD Patrolman Jamie James, Katrina L. Chappell, 24, of 1199 N. Poplar St., allegedly left her baby inside a vehicle at a Mineral Wells Avenue store for approximately 45 minutes while she was inside shopping. Witnesses said they noticed the baby in the vehicle when they went inside the store. They came out of the store 20 minutes later and the baby had not been moved. Chappell told police that she forgot the baby was with her. The windows had been up and the doors were unlocked, but the baby’s vital signs were all normal. Chappell was arrested with a bond of $2,500, and she was originally scheduled to appear Thursday in General Sessions Court. Money was stolen from a woman’s purse Thursday night or Friday morning as it sat inside an unlocked truck at her Clearview Drive home east of Whitlock. According to a report by Henry County Sheriff’s Department Deputy Wayne Fuqua, dogs were heard barking at the residence Thursday night. When the residents awoke Friday, they found the purse on the ground outside with $150 in cash missing from it. Nothing else appeared to be missing. Approximately $100 in cash was stolen during a burglary of Ridgeway Funeral Home, 201 Dunlap St. in Paris, Thursday night or Friday morning. According to a report by Whitaker, money was taken from two different unlocked cash drawers inside the funeral home and two filing cabinets also had been opened. The theft occurred sometime between 9 p.m. Thursday and 8:30 a.m. Friday. There were no signs of forced entry and all doors and windows were locked. A Paris woman was arrested at her residence Friday night for filing a false report and contributing to the delinquency of a minor. Nikki Lynn Barlow, 18, of 208 Routon St. was arrested by PPD Patrolman Amanda Forrest. Barlow allegedly helped a runaway teenager hide from police and denied that the runaway was at the residence. The runaway was later found hiding under a mattress at the residence. Barlow’s bond was set at $5,000 and she is scheduled to appear Thursday in General Sessions Court.