New apartment building for disabled in demand. A new $2.6 million independent-living facility in Marshall for people with disabilities is fully occupied and has a waiting list. The last tenant at Fithian House, named after the late Bradford Woods Mayor Ted Fithian, will move in next month, said Dick Lynch, executive director of the Spina Bifida Association of Western Pennsylvania. Fithian House is on 32 acres owned by the Woodlands Foundation, a nonprofit agency on the Marshall/Bradford Woods border. The Woodlands serves more than 5,000 people each year who have disabilities and chronic illnesses. Even though the agencies are separate, they work hand-in-hand to improve the quality of life for people who have disabilities, said Leslie Uriss-Spehar, the Woodlands' communications director. The Spina Bifida Association manages day-to-day operations at Fithian House, which sits on a small parcel of land it bought from the Woodlands. The new 14-unit apartment building was built for low-income people with disabilities who meet certain criteria. The association started accepting applications for the units in September and about 12 people are on a waiting list for an apartment, Mr. Lynch said. He said there are plans to build another similar apartment building next door to Fithian House. The association probably will apply for Housing and Urban Development financing this summer, he added. Mr. Lynch said the need for another apartment building is clear given the success of Fithian House. The one-bedroom units have kitchens and bathrooms. Even though 24-hour on-site care is not available, residents have access to staff working just yards away at the Gatehouse, a transitional-living facility, where 11 people with disabilities can live for up to two years, learning life and job skills so they can live independently. The association paid for Fithian House with a $2.1 million HUD grant and $350,000 from the Allegheny County Multi-Housing Division, with the remaining amount contributed by the association. The Fithian House took about three years from concept to completion, Mr. Lynch said. The man for whom the building is named volunteered regularly at The Woodlands and was on the board of directors for The Woodlands and the Spina Bifida Association of Western Pennsylvania. Mr. Fithian died in September. Although the apartment building is full, work continues, Ms. Uriss-Spehar said. Before the end of the month, surveyors will look over land that the Woodlands wants to make into a 6-foot-wide accessible and graded trail leading from Fithian House to the main campus, Ms. Uriss-Spehar said. The trail, which is expected to be done by fall, will be for both Fithian House and Gatehouse residents, she added. The Woodlands also is coordinating a volunteer day when FedEx Ground employees will take Fithian House residents shopping to outfit their apartments. At the same time, other FedEx employees will shop to equip the apartment building's common kitchen, while others will shop for food and cook dinner. At the end of the day, the employees and residents will sit down and eat the meal together, Ms. Uriss-Spehar said. "Our mission is to enrich the lives of people with disabilities, and partnering with FedEx Ground to help the new residents of Fithian House is a fun and unique way for us to do this," Ms. Uriss-Spehar said. "Our staff, as well as the volunteers, are really looking forward to it." Applications from those who want to live at Fithian House are screened by a committee using HUD guidelines. Ms. Uriss-Spehar said the process is anonymous so no one gets special preference. Information on the application process is available at the association's Web site www.sbawp.org or by calling 724-934-9600.