Developer granted delay for North Shore projects. The city's Stadium Authority board unanimously agreed yesterday with a Columbus developer's request to extend construction deadlines for North Shore hotel and amphitheater projects, though the request provoked warnings from board members. Continental Real Estate won approvals yesterday to push back construction starting dates for a $25 million Hyatt Place hotel until June 30 and a $12 million entertainment complex until Aug. 1. Under previous agreements with the authority, which controls the city-owned land between the North Shore stadiums, the developers were supposed to begin building next month. They requested more time to secure financing and government approvals for the projects, authority staffers said. Representatives from a union-backed neighborhood group called North Side United -- which has been trying to negotiate a community benefits agreement with Continental -- criticized the city agency for repeatedly siding with the developers. North Side United and Continental have not met since May 2008, organizers said. "You're not acting in the public's interest -- you're acting in their interest," complained John Canning of the Central North Side. Though the board voted 5-0 to approve Continental's contract extensions, board members signaled some frustration and questioned whether the developers could finish the entertainment complex as promised by May 1, 2010. "If this [approval] is given, we expect them to complete by the date we agreed to," state Rep. Jake Wheatley said. Continental "better get on the stick, because we're kind of running out of patience. This is getting a little old for us," said the board's vice chair, Robert Ewanco. Stadium Authority Director Mary Conturo said it is possible for the developers to complete the amphitheater project in the nine months projected, from August to May 1, 2010. "It's a tight schedule of course, but could be done," she said. Poor credit markets have affected the project, Continental Chairman Frank Kass told the Post-Gazette this week, and financing for the entertainment complex was impacted when Gov. Ed Rendell cut a proposed state grant from $4 million to $2.5 million. Mr. Kass said the outdoor construction of the amphitheater complex might be done by May 2010 but doubted the entire venue could.