Meteor or piece of spacecraft caused fireball, boom, expert says. A fireball and big boom that people witnessed Sunday night could have been caused by a meteor or even a falling part from a Russian spacecraft, experts say. "I know it's one of the two," said Geoff Chester, an astronomer and public relations officer with the U.S. Naval Observatory in Washington. "I just can't tell you definitively which one it actually was." People in parts of Virginia, Maryland and North Carolina reported a light similar to fireworks about 9:40 p.m., followed by an explosive sound. Chester suggested that a falling Russian booster rocket caused the hubbub. The booster -- a steel cylinder about 25 feet long and 8 feet wide -- was part of the Soyuz spacecraft that launched Thursday on a mission to the International Space Station. The booster was expected to fall toward Earth on a path, headed east, that would have taken it across the Chesapeake Bay region Sunday night, Chester said. The booster would have burned in the friction of the Earth's atmosphere and, as it slowed below the speed of sound, it would have released energy that caused a sonic boom, Chester said. "My feeling is this is what people actually saw," Chester said. Stefan Bocchino, a spokesman for the Joint Space Operations Center at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, said experts there do not think the light was caused by a manmade object. The Joint Space Operations Center tracks manmade objects that enter the atmosphere. The National Weather Service has ruled out any weather-related cause. Other experts said the light and boom sound like the work of a meteor. Meteors are bits of space rock or gravel that burn and create light when they hit the atmosphere. "Some very bright ones are known to explode," creating a sound, said Phillip Ianna, a professor emeritus of astronomy at the University of Virginia. Meteors typically burn up in the atmosphere. Much less often, a small piece of the rock will hit Earth. Steve Chesley, an astronomer with NASA, said the Sunday phenomenon could be the work of a meteor the size of a television set or small car. "These kinds of things hit the [atmosphere] once a month," Chesley said. They usually fall over water or less-populated areas and attract less attention. NASA doesn't track such small objects, Chesley said, and focuses instead on big ones -- space rocks half the length of a football field or more -- that are headed toward Earth. "It's the big ones we're worried about, and we need to find them decades in advance," Chesley said. The object on Sunday had to be unusually bright to be seen in urban areas, where artificial lights drown out most celestial objects, said David Hagan, a staff scientist with the Science Museum of Virginia. "It had to be quite a phenomenon to be observed from Shockoe Bottom," Hagan said. Brian Munford, 43, of Richmond, was driving in Short Pump when he saw the light. "It was like a Roman candle headed the wrong way, coming down. . . . It was pretty cool-looking." Chester, of the Naval Observatory, said objects burning in the sky can appear deceptively close when they actually are many miles away.