School layoff policies rethought . School districts aren't yet laying off teachers, but most in Northeast Georgia either are reviewing or changing policies that will allow them to fire veteran teachers if they need to. The policies make seniority less of a priority when deciding which teachers to keep and which ones to let go - part of a trend that started more than 10 years ago to allow school districts to keep newer teachers with promise even if they had to cut positions. Last week, the Clarke County Board of Education began to take public comment on a new policy that would replace a 25-year-old rule that made seniority the only factor when administrators eliminate jobs. And in January, the Oconee County school board made similar changes to its policy, deciding to use a ranking system for seniority as a secondary measure to evaluate the value of an employee. Most Northeast Georgia school systems haven't had to consider layoff policies - dubbed "reduction-in-force plans" - for two decades because enrollment growth forced schools to hire more and more. But enrollment has slowed in places like Jackson and Barrow counties - which were among the fastest-growing counties in the state a few years ago - and since state funding is tied to enrollment, that means less state funding. Plus, the state reduced funding for public schools across the board by 2 percent this year, while next year's plans call for an additional 3 percent reduction - worth about $7.3 million for a school system like Barrow County. To make up for funding cuts, schools have implemented a hiring freeze and are not replacing many teachers who retire or move away. At the same time, property values and sales tax revenues are stagnant, meaning there is likely to be less local money for schools. As administrators consider cutting staff, some systems are revisiting their policies to make sure they can keep teachers with stellar records and teachers who can coach or have an in-demand specialty like special education, even if they have fewer years on the job. While Clarke and Oconee update their layoff policies, school boards in Barrow, Jackson and Madison counties tweaked their own only a few years ago. Under the newer policies, even tenured teachers who work in a district for more than four years aren't guaranteed they'll keep their jobs, said Phil Hartley, an attorney for the Georgia School Boards Association. "It's becoming harder and harder to justify 'How do we get rid of the five-year teacher whose test scores are superior to the 20-year veteran teacher's?" Hartley said. "The school district has to have a way of making a decision based on criteria that it feels it can fairly apply for a reduction in force." School administrators still will consider a teacher's seniority, but only after looking at job evaluations, classroom observations and test scores. Seniority-based layoff policies still are the standard for most large school districts. Today, all but five of the nation's 25 largest school districts use seniority as a basis for cutting staff, according to the National Council on Teacher Quality, a Washington-based organization that encourages stronger state teacher-quality policies. Still, basing layoff decisions on more subjective standards may have flaws, too, said Tim Callahan, a spokesman for the Professional Association of Georgia Educators. "If performance would be the sole criteria for a reduction-in-force, I think there would be a great amount of subjectivity and unfairness because of the system that we have," Callahan said. "I think if the reduction-in-force plan considers several matters including performance, there might be more of a chance for fairness, but frankly, what we're hearing out there is mass reductions at the cheapest possible rate with not a whole lot of care and thought into a reduction-in-force policy."