Army depot nominated for ‘Freedom Award’. The Blue Grass Army Depot was one of 46 Kentucky employers recently nominated to receive the 2009 Secretary of Defense Employer Support Freedom Award. Employers are nominated by their employees who serve in the Kentucky National Guard or military reserves. The nominated employers may have done a variety of things to make military life easier such as providing continued benefits while serving, differential pay and family assistance, along with other forms of support. “We are truly honored to have been nominated by our employees for this prestigious award,” said Blue Grass Army Depot Commander Col. Joseph Tirone. “While we strive to support our service members on the battlefield, we also recognize that many of our employees serve their country as Department of Army civilians at Blue Grass Army Depot and as National Guard and Reserve members. Supporting them both on and off the battlefield is key to our success,” he said. The 2009 awards will be presented at a ceremony in Washington, D. C., Thursday, Sept. 17 at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Center. More than 3,200 National Guard and Reserve members from across the country nominated their employers for their support, according to a statement released Wednesday by Lt. Col. Michelle Barrett from the Office of the Secretary of Defense. A national selection board comprised of senior defense officials and business leaders will select up to 15 recipients for this year’s award. Secretary of Defense William Perry authorized the first award in 1996 and presented it to Schneider National, McDonnell Douglas, United Parcel Service Central Florida District, Tektronix Inc. and National Life of Vermont. In the years since, more than 100 employers have received this prestigious award. The award was instituted by the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR). ESGR is a Department of Defense agency established in 1972 whose mission is to gain and maintain employer support for guard and reserve service by recognizing outstanding support, increasing awareness of the law and resolving conflicts through mediation. The nomination process is open to all guard and reserve personnel and their families, and applications are submitted online to the ESGR.