Madison Central wins state mock trial championship. The Madison Central High School mock trial team won the state championship Sunday, defeating Eastern High School of Louisville in the final round. Senior Kasey Anderson was named the tournament’s best attorney, while Junior Matt Bendure won best witness. MCHS will represent Kentucky in the national tournament to take place May 8-9 in Atlanta. Central was one of four Madison County teams in the tournament. Only Jefferson County, with seven, had more schools represented in the in the 26-team competition. Madison Southern High School and Model Laboratory School, along with Foley Middle School, took part in the tournament. Foley Middle, which earlier won its state tournament, was invited to participate and won one round before being eliminated. “All four teams represented Madison County very well,” said Madison Circuit Judge William G. Clouse Jr., who helps coach the MCHS team. “The Foley team received very complimentary remarks from the judges during of its evaluations.” Central defeated McLean County, Louisville Assumption, the Montgomery County blue team and the C.M. Gatton Academy of Math and Science before facing Eastern in the finals. Draws determined whether competitors would represent the prosecution or defense in the case of a defendant accused of selling marijuana on school property. In the finals, Central’s team successfully argued the defendant was not guilty, based on police entrapment, Clouse said. The competition, conducted in the Jefferson County Judicial Center, was judged by judges from the Kentucky Court of Appeals, circuit and district judges, attorneys and law students. “We have an exceptional group of students on our 12-member team,” Clouse said, “and they have worked extremely hard.” Clouse’s daughter, Kristin, a senior at the University of Kentucky College of Law, and Robin Lake, a senior at Chase Law School, are the attorney coaches for MCHS. Vicki Rollins is the faculty coach. The team will begin preparing today for the national competition, Judge Clouse said. “Kentucky has an outstanding reputation in the mock trial world and several schools already have sent us e-mails wanting to conduct practice scrimmages with Central after we get to Atlanta before the competition,” he said. Bill Robinson can be reached at brobinson@richmondregister.com or 624-6622.