Creating a rain garden. The Kit Carson Elementary School ecology club is putting in a flower garden. It will not be just any garden, however. “This will a rain garden, designed and constructed to decrease and filter storm water runoff,” said Tammy Ritchison, the club’s parent co-sponsor. The garden will be planted only with native plants that put down deep roots, making them drought resistant and enhancing the garden’s filtration capabilities. Rain gardens are planted in depressions, dug about 10 to 18 inches below the surrounding surface, Ritchison said. “That allows them to capture storm runoff,” she said. Water stands no more than two days in a rain garden because a mixture of organic material and/or sand is added to allow drainage. Scott Darst, Madison County extension agent for youth development, visited Kit Carson Elementary on Wednesday to help club members conduct a soil percolation test, to determine how their rain garden’s soil should be treated to ensure drainage. If properly designed and constructed, a rain garden will capture 90 percent of the precipitation dropped by a typical Kentucky rain. “Some people fear that mosquitoes will lay eggs in the water collected by a rain garden,” Ritchison said. “Mosquitoes will lay eggs in the water, but the eggs do not hatch for seven days. Because the rain garden pools drain in two days, the mosquito eggs die. That actually helps reduce the mosquito population.” The native wildflowers and grasses prescribed for a rain garden not only are beautiful, the seeds they produce attract birds that eat mosquitoes and other pests, she said. One plant native to Kentucky, the butterfly milkweed, will attract monarch butterflies to a rain garden, because the milkweed is the only plant in which the large orange and black butterfly lays its eggs. The students will plant their garden on Earth Day, April 22. The project is being funded with by a $500 grant from the Bluegrass Rain Garden Alliance. Ecology club members raised an additional $650 by selling candygrams for Valentine’s Day, Ritchison said. The school’s ecology club, which started three years ago with eight members, today includes more than 75 students from third through fifth grades. Teachers Vivian Bowles and Stacey Wills are the faculty co-sponsors. To help fulfill its grant obligations to the rain garden alliance, Kit Carson Elementary will conduct an April 18 rain garden workshop for teachers and other adults. In addition to providing instruction on rain garden design, the workshop will cover curriculum development and lesson plans, plus hands-on gardening activities. To register, send an e-mail to Brittany Zwicker by Friday at brittany@kentuckypride.com with attendee’s name, lunch preference, school name/organization and subjects taught. Bill Robinson can be reached at brobinson@richmondregister.com or at 624-6622.