Man arrested for DUI crash into parked car. A Richmond man was charged early Sunday morning with driving under the influence and three counts of first-degree wanton endangerment after Richmond police say he struck a car stopped along Interstate 75 with a flat tire. Evan P. King, 24, of Campbell Branch Road, was weaving back and forth while driving northbound on I-75 near mile marker 89 around 2 a.m. Sunday, Richmond Police Department spokesman Sgt. Willard Reardon said in a news release. King then struck a car containing a family of three which was stopped on the side of the road with a flat tire, Reardon said. The father was attempting to change the tire while the mother and an infant in a car seat were inside the vehicle, Reardon said. The mother suffered head and leg injuries and was transported to Pattie A. Clay Regional Medical Center, Reardon said. The severity of her injuries is unknown. The infant and the father were uninjured in the crash, which slowed traffic along the interstate for 30 to 45 minutes. King was lodged in the Madison County Detention Center following the accident. He is free on a $5,000 cash bond, jail officials said Monday. City tools takenA thief stole more than $2,600 in tools from the City of Richmond’s public works department Friday. Employees at the department’s E. Walnut Street offices discovered Friday morning that someone had used an office window to break into the building and made off with a number of tools, Reardon said. Missing are three Stihl chainsaws, three bull floats, five bull float handles, a Milwaukee brand hammer drill, a power post-hole digger, an auger and a handheld Stihl concrete saw, all valued at $2,681. The thief also damaged a Pepsi vending machine while attempting to break into it, Reardon said. Other crimes Two leaf blowers were reported stolen Friday by the owner of Silver Cliff Landscaping. The backpack-style Stihl blowers were taken from a truck being used at St. Andrews Retirement Community and were valued at $1,000. More than $2,500 in electronics were reported stolen Monday morning from an apartment in the 100 block of O’Roark Avenue. The residents told police someone had cut the screen from the storm door and manipulated the lock during the early morning hours to break into the home. Missing were a Sony PlayStation 3, an XBox 360, games for both systems, 60 to 70 DVDs and two Dell Inspiron laptop computers. The items were valued at $2,550. A Louisiana man was arrested for carrying a concealed deadly weapon Sunday following a traffic stop near the Eastern Bypass. Sean Clouthier, 22, of Sulpher, La., was stopped at the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and the Eastern Bypass for a traffic stop, and a search of his vehicle uncovered a loaded 9mm pistol and a loaded .45-caliber pistol in the vehicle’s console. A wallet was reported stolen Saturday from an unlocked car parked outside the Pink Flamingo Laundromat on Big Hill Avenue. The wallet was later recovered near Advance Auto Parts, but $108 in cash had been taken. Gabriel Shearer, 34, of Richmond, was arrested Saturday for misdemeanor theft by unlawful taking after Walmart employees detained him for allegedly taking $33 in merchandise from the store. Anyone with information about these crimes is asked to call the Richmond Police Department at 623-1162 or 623-8911. Brian Smith may be reached at bsmith@richmondregister.com or at 624-6694.