Rubbish mounts as recycling plan fails. Teething problems to the council’s new waste collection services saw thousands of borough residents left with recycling piling up outside their homes. Filled recycling boxes in streets across the borough remained untouched as the council’s new recycling contractor’s SITA were nowhere to be seen last week. Since the two-week old service came into effect Hounslow Labour councillors revealed they have been repeatedly contacted by unhappy residents. Complaints have included the non-collection of recycling, non-delivery and loss of containers and emptied containers strewn across garden paths and pavements. Brentford ward councillor Ruth Cadbury said: “The numbers of complaints have rocketed and this means that people will be put off recycling. “This is terrible news for the environment, and will cost our council tax payers money as more waste goes to land-fill.” At the time the council said it believed the system, which saw new containers for paper, plastic and food waste being dropped off at homes in the borough, would make it easier for residents to recycle more of their household waste. Hounslow’s lead member for environment and planning, Councillor Barbara Reid, apologised this week for the failures of the service and said that she was taking the problem very seriously. She said: ”I want to say sorry for those residents that have been inconvenienced and give them my assurance that we are on the case. “It’s so important as recycling really is a top priority for us. There has been a huge response for from the public and that’s not a problem. That’s exactly what we want and we will respond to their enthusiasm. We are taking this very seriously.” Coun Reid said the problems had arisen after SITA had under estimated the waste and the logistics of the collection. An extra team have been commissioned to help with collections while extra staff have been brought in to respond to people’s calls. If your recycling has not been collected, contact the council’s waste management team on 020 8583 5555.