Firearms expert to testify at Dziekanski inquiry. A Delta police officer has been called to testify at the public inquiry into the death of Polish immigrant Robert Dziekanski following a 2007 confrontation with RCMP officers at Vancouver International Airport. Dziekanski died after he was shocked several times by a Taser wielded by RCMP Const. Kwesi Millington, one of four airport police who said Dziekanski was hit with the high-voltage electrical stun gun because he was acting in a threatening manner. Following the incident, the RCMP asked the Delta Police Department’s firearms expert Const. Craig Baltzer to examine the Taser that was fired at Dziekanski by Millington. Baltzer downloaded information from a computer chip that is included with each Taser designed to record every discharge of the device. The constable will give evidence about his findings when the public inquiry chaired by Thomas Braidwood resumes on March 23. The Delta officer is expected to take the stand some time after RCMP Cpl. Benjamin Robinson, one of the four airport officers and the supervisor on duty at the time Dziekanski died. Before the inquiry took a two-week break, it heard the RCMP officer who fired the Taser admit that he’d made erroneous statements in his report about the deadly encounter. Millington originally stated that Dziekanski had to be repeatedly shocked because he didn’t immediately fall to the ground. But a video taken by a witness shows that Dziekanski did fall to the ground when stunned. Millington also denied the officers had met to discuss the incident, even though one of his colleagues said they had. And he told the inquiry he never overheard his fellow officers discuss the incident. Millington was the only officer armed with a Taser, and had only recently been trained in its use. He also said he didn’t issue a warning to Dziekanski that he was going to use the Taser because he felt he didn’t have time and that Dziekanski, who was holding a stapler, was posing a threat to himself and the other officers. Dziekanski died in the international arrivals area of Vancouver International Airport after spending more than 10 hours waiting for his mother Zofia Cisowski.