Cold winters may be new trend. After enduring the coldest winter in 16 years and now persistent below-normal temperatures that are chilling what should be spring, Richmondites can be excused for asking what gives. Meteorologists suspect coastal B.C. is now being nipped by a trend of colder than normal winter temperatures that could last a decade. Or two. Or three. The Pacific Decadal Oscillation is a phenomenon of alternating phases in which offshore ocean temperatures tend to run warmer and then colder—for 20 to 30 years at a stretch. “There’s some debate as to whether we’ve slipped into a cold phase or not,” said Environment Canada meteorologist Gabor Fricska. “It may be too early to say definitively.” A warm Pacific Decadal Oscillation phase was measured from 1920-1945 followed by a cold phase that lasted until 1975, bringing the Lower Mainland many severe winters. Since then it’s been a mixed bag: three cold years until 2002, then four more warmer years. But Fricska says some meteorologists think the recent spate of cold weather may be the onset of a new cold phase. “It is cold right now,” he said. “The sea surface temperatures immediately off of our coast are one to two degrees below normal.” Three out of the last four seasons (except last fall) have been colder than seasonal, he added. When a cold Pacific Decadal Oscillation phase is prevalent, winter low pressure systems in the Gulf of Alaska are often weaker than usual, allowing more cold air to come down to the coast from northern B.C. For anyone wanting proof of the hardship endured in the winter of 2008-09, Fricska offers these Metro Vancouver stats for December-January-February, from the airport weather station: It was the coldest winter since 1992-93 and the 10th coldest since record keeping began in 1937. Mean temperatures for the three months averaged 2.4 C, down from a normal of 3.6 degrees. Snowfall was more than two and a half times normal—109 cms versus 42.5—while rainfall was 35 per cent below normal. “People aren’t imagining things if they think it’s colder,” Fricska said. How could this be happening in an era of global warming? Fricska said Pacific Decadal Oscillations and shorter duration weather variations like El Nino are regional shifts that don’t reflect what’s happening at the planetary level. He noted B.C. experienced many of its coldest winters in recent memory during the cold oscillation cycle from 1945 to 1975—even though global air temperatures climbed steadily during that period. Yet more snow fell this week at some higher elevations around the Lower Mainland. “Our seasonal forecast for the spring is for continuing below normal temperatures on the coast,” Fricska said.