Russian artists in America. Generations of Russian artists who emigrated to the U.S. are on display at the Russian Museum. David Burliuk’s ‘Portrait of Professor Nicholas K. Roerich’ (1929) is one of the items displayed. In David Burliuk’s “Hudson,” a view of the New York City skyline seems to fly apart into ribbons of image and memory like a fleeting dream. But for Burliuk and the other Russian emigre artists featured in a new exhibition at the Russian Museum, America was a tangible reality that strongly influenced the development of their art, as demonstrated by Burliuk’s departure from his earlier work in “Hudson.” The traveling exhibition, titled “American Artists from the Russian Empire,” includes 45 artists who left Russia or the Soviet Union for America in the first half of the 20th century, and is the first time such a cast of artists has been assembled. “Some go together, some don’t,” said Yevgenia Petrova, deputy director of the State Russian Museum and the project’s main creative force. “It’s a cross-section of what went on in Russian-American art up to the middle of the 20th century.” This schizophrenic amalgam of paintings and sculptures runs the gamut from Neo-classicism to Abstract art and includes several generations of artists, from Cubo-futurist Max Weber to Alexander Liberman. The idea came from a 2003 exhibition of Russians who emigrated to France. The American-based Foundation for International Arts and Education organized the exhibition, drawing from museums, galleries and private collections in the U.S. The show made its debut at the Fred Jones Jr. Museum at the University of Oklahoma this spring, and will return to San Diego after a two-month run at Moscow’s Tretyakov Gallery this summer. Its appearance in St. Petersburg marks the first time these works have been shown in Russia. “For the American public, the goal is to remind viewers that these artists had Russian roots, to point out what they brought from Russia to American art, and what from American art influenced them,” Petrova said. In Russia, the exhibition aims to familiarize viewers with new art. “For [these artists], showing in Russia was impossible because of the Iron Curtain; it wasn’t patriotic to show such work,” Petrova said. American visitors will likely know artists like Mark Rothko, whose distinctive abstract style featuring solid blocks of color has become an icon of American art. Russian art-lovers, on the other hand, may know Boris Grigoryev, whose striking, slightly off-kilter portraits and depictions of peasant life have been extensively exhibited in Russia since the fall of the Soviet Union. The first wave of Russian artists to move to America was mainly made up of Jews who left before the Bolshevik Revolution, seeking chances to exhibit and study art after suffering anti-Semitism in Russia. “They left to obtain an education and gain freedom,” Petrova said. Life in the Jewish Pale denied these artists a chance to show their work or communicate with kindred spirits on the international art scene, she explained. After the revolution, many more artists fled in the face of violence, starvation and political persecution during the Civil War and under the Soviet regime. “They left … to avoid prison and stay alive, but also to keep working; they didn’t want to take part in Socialist realism,” Petrova said. Once in the United States, Russian artists were exposed to fluid, “contagious” new influences that profoundly affected their work, Petrova said. “The Burliuk painting of New York is so unexpected for Burliuk, it shows how strongly American art influenced these artists,” she said. At the same time, the Russian artists influenced their American counterparts and retained something distinctly Russian in their work. Petrova pointed to surrealist painter Pavel Tchelitchew, who is included in the exhibition, and how his overarching aesthetic resembled that of Pavel Filonov, who remained in Russia. Although the two men most likely didn’t know each other’s work, they arrived at similar ideas on “what’s close to man in nature” thanks to a shared background in Russian natural philosophy, she said. Shannon and Julie Ward, visiting from Los Angeles, said the exhibition showcased the ties between Russian and American art. “There’s really a lot of crossover; American artists looked like Russians and vice versa,” Julie said. “American Artists from the Russian Empire” runs through June at the State Russian Museum, 4 Inzhenernaya Ulitsa, M: Gostiny Dvor. Tel: 595 4248