Debates Reflect Anti-Gay Feeling. As the Week Against Homophobia gets underway in St. Petersburg and several other Russian cities, Wednesday’s debates at Sochi music bar showed that gay rights activists have a long way to go to overcome the superstitions. One of the two participants, Mikhail Potepkin of the Kremlin-backed youth movement Nashi, who described himself as “homonegativist,” compared homosexuality to necrophilia and bestiality and said that as a member of a sexual majority, he has the right not to see gay people on Nevsky Prospekt, St. Petersburg’s main street. Potepkin’s supporters reacted by giggling and applauding his jokes, and in subsequent discussions in the blogosphere, his views were largely considered to be “moderate.” But Valery Sozayev, chairman of the board of Vykhod (Coming Out), St. Petersburg’s gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) rights organization that was founded last year, believes the discussion was useful. “Unfortunately — or fortunately, we saw the true colors of the contemporary political scene as it is,” Sozayev said by phone on Thursday. “Our politicians cannot speak normally about violations of the rights of the LGBT community. For them, it is all either very funny or very scabrous, and we saw more evidence of this yesterday. But the fact that it was articulated, that it entered the public space, the space of public youth politics is already an achievement, because it would not have been possible even 12 months ago. “We are starting to come out, so the reaction will naturally be negative and tough on the part of homophobes, but we should be prepared for that. We merely see confirmation of the necessity of our work. The Week Against Homophobia is dedicated to the memory of victims of political repression. “The year of 2009 has been declared a year for remembering gays and lesbians who were the victims of political repression, because this year it will be 75 years since consensual same-sex relations between men became criminally punishable under the Soviet Criminal Code,” Sozayev said. Similar events have been held in the city in the past, but this year, importantly, it is part of Xenophobii.NET, or the No to Xenophobia campaign, which was launched on March 15 and continues through Sunday. “It’s interesting and positive that in St. Petersburg it has become part of the coalition and is held with the support of other public organizations, and this is for the first time,” Sozayev said. “Many public organizations, both human rights and political, have supported this event.” Although Vykhod takes part in demonstrations such as last year’s anti-Nazi March Against Hatred, Sozayev described his organization as “non-political.” “The March Against Hatred is not a political march, it’s a citizens’ march, [but] we don’t take part in and are not planning to take part in political events, because people who belong to the LGBT community have diverse political views, so we cannot maintain a specific political view. “Our task is not to confront the authorities, but to help them to fulfill the obligations they took on for themselves.” Last year, however, the gay community saw a clampdown by the St. Petersburg authorities. In October, Side by Side, St. Petersburg’s first lesbian and gay film festival, had to take place in private after fire inspectors suddenly shut down the two venues due to host the event. Those venues had in turn been hurriedly booked after Pik Cinema mysteriously withdrew its support for the festival. Earlier in the year, gay clubs Central Station and Bunker were subject to police raids. “I think that despite everything, we can cooperate with the authorities,” Sozayev said. “The fact that some events are being held now and that the authorities are not putting any pressure on these events is also indicative of that, as well as the fact that our organization was officially registered with no problems [in January]. “We can’t see what is on the authorities’ mind, but some process is underway.”