Oakland officer shot by parolee is taken off life support. SAN FRANCISCO — A fourth Oakland police officer who was shot by a 26-year-old man wanted on a parole violation has been taken off of life support, a hospital spokeswoman said Tuesday. Officer John Hege was taken off life support Monday night, said Andrea Breaux of Alameda County Medical Center. The 41-year-old Concord resident's family had kept him alive so his organs could be donated, in keeping with his wishes. Breaux said the process of harvesting Hege's organs started just after 8 p.m. Monday and was completed by 2 a.m. today. According to police, Hege and a partner, Sgt. Mark Dunakin, were gunned down when they pulled over the parolee on Saturday. A massive manhunt ensued and two more officers died when the city's SWAT team stormed an apartment where the suspected gunman, Lovelle Mixon, was hiding. Mixon was fatally shot. The two officers who were killed at the apartment were Sgt. Ervin Romans, 43, and Sgt. Daniel Sakai, 35. "This is the biggest tragedy ever to hit our department," Oakland police Sgt. Mark Schmid said Monday. "We're just numb and walking around like zombies. We feel each other's pain but we don't know how to explain it." Flowers piled up outside Oakland police headquarters and books brimmed with condolences. A vigil was planned for Tuesday evening at the corner near where the two motorcycle officers pulled over Mixon. DNA found at the scene of the rape was a probable match to Lovelle Mixon, Oakland police spokesman Jeff Thomason said Monday night. Investigators got that information Friday, the day before the routine traffic stop ended in gunfire. California prison records show that authorities had issued a warrant for Mixon's arrest after he failed to make a mandatory meeting with his parole officer on Feb. 19. The family said he had previously served six years in state prison for assault with a firearm during an armed robbery in San Francisco. More recently, he had served several months in prison last year. State Attorney General Jerry Brown said he will examine how Mixon, 26, was monitored following his release from prison in November. Mixon also was a suspect in a murder but was never charged, according to state prison officials. "Mixon was certainly a character that needed more supervision," said Brown, the former mayor of Oakland. "In Oakland, the highway patrol has an office there, sheriff and police. And all those agencies should have a list of the more dangerous, threatening parolees so they can keep a watch on them." Problems involving parolees from California's overcrowded prison system have long beset state officials who must monitor them, local officials who try to keep streets safe and federal authorities who enforce firearms and other laws. Mixon was one of 164 Oakland parolees in mid-March who had outstanding arrest warrants for parole violations, state prison records show. The city of 400,000 had more than 1,900 total parolees at the time, including nearly 300 who had been returned to custody or whose parole was about to be revoked. During traffic stops, police often check vehicle records to find whether the driver has outstanding warrants. But police have not disclosed how Saturday's shooting unfolded. Mixon's family members said he was upset that he was unable to find work, felt his parole officer was not helping him and feared he would be arrested for a parole violation. State prison officials said Mixon's parole officer was responsible for 70 parolees. A caseload of that size is nearly unmanageable, and also not unusual, said Lance Corcoran, spokesman for California's prison guard union, which includes parole officers. "There is no control," Corcoran said. "It's simply supervision, and supervision at distance." Associated Press writers Josh Dubow, Lisa Leff and Juliana Barbassa in San Francisco and Terry Collins in Oakland contributed to this report. This is an undated photo released by the Oakland Police Department of Oakland Police officer John Hege. A man wanted for violating his parole killed three police officers and gravely wounded Hege in two shootings Saturday, March 21, 2009. Hege was taken off life support Tuesday. (AP Photo/Oakland Police Department)