New call for help in lynch case . MONROE - Federal and state law enforcement officials are nearly certain there are people living who can help them solve the 1946 Moore's Ford lynching. Top brass from the federal Department of Justice and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation made a plea Saturday in Monroe - just a few miles from the site of the country's last mass-lynching - for the public's help with one of their coldest cases. "With a pretty good degree of certainty, almost 100 percent, there are individuals here in Walton County who can help us solve this and provide details that would fill in the blank," said Gregory Jones, special agent in charge of the FBI's Atlanta office. Jones, GBI Director Vernon Keenan and Cynthia Deitle, the FBI's civil rights unit chief, were among the panelists at a Saturday discussion and film screening on the murders in the Walton County seat. Law enforcement officials sought to show they are serious about prosecuting the murders, in which an angry white mob shot to death two black sharecroppers and their wives July 25, 1946, at the Moore's Ford bridge between Walton and Oconee counties. They also wanted to continue publicizing the case and call for anyone with information to come forward and help with the investigation. "If we could solve the case through sheer resources, that would be done, but that is not what occurs," Keenan said. "We've got to have cooperation from people who have direct knowledge or evidence about what happened. They have got to work with law enforcement for us to be able to prevail and solve this case." At the same time, the panelists admitted the difficulties inherent in investigating a nearly 63-year-old case and tried to tamp down expectations. "We still have some things to do, but I certainly don't want to raise expectations," Jones said. However, he said, "We're not finished, and there are a number of things that we continue to pick up on." No matter how gruesome the crime, the rules of evidence still apply, Keenan said. The horrific nature of the lynching of Roger and Dorothy Malcom and George and Mae Murray Dorsey, and the national attention it received in the summer of 1946, caused federal officials to put an "unprecedented amount of pressure" on FBI agents to solve the case back then, Jones said. Two dozen federal agents swarmed the area, interviewing people and identifying 160 persons of interest. But they ran into a wall of silence from the local community and couldn't put together a case to arrest anyone. Today, the case still is a priority for the FBI and GBI, the panelists said, but they still face a problem with cooperation from people who may know something. "It's not just a standard cold case homicide," said Deitle, whose office is in charge of investigating a number old civil rights era crimes. "It's also a case where some victims' relatives, witnesses and even some perpetrators are still paralyzed by a climate of fear." Of the 107 cold cases the FBI currently is reviewing, the Moore's Ford lynching is the oldest and involves the most victims and alleged perpetrators, Deitle said. There have been a few breaks in the case in recent years, though none appear to have gone anywhere. Last year, FBI and GBI agents executed a search warrant at a house in Walton County's rural Gratis community. After digging in the backyard of the home, agents seized some items and sent them to the GBI's crime lab. Keenan declined to discuss the items seized or any other evidence in the case Saturday because it could inhibit the ongoing investigation. Several years ago, Keenan thought about releasing to the public the GBI's investigative file on Moore's Ford, he said following Saturday's event. He discussed it with the state attorney general, but they decided against it because there still is a chance of prosecution, he said. "I have seen many cases that we considered to be stagnant that ... there was no activity on and then with a phone call we suddenly piece together a case and go forward with an arrest and prosecution," he said. "That has happened many times in my career so I never believe that a case is hopeless. And I don't believe this one is." Saturday's event, sponsored by the Moore's Ford Memorial Committee, also featured a screening of filmmaker Keith Beauchamp's documentary on the killings for the TV One network.