Mass. legislators put off debate on gas tax hike. "We've been pretty clear. We need to get to the reform-related issues before we do anything else," said Rep. Joseph F. Wagner, D-Chicopee, the co-chairman of the Joint Committee on Transportation. "The public wants to see what we are going to do to fix a system that is broken." The announcement came as the five-member board of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority is scheduled to meet 3 p.m. on Monday at Ludlow Town Hall. Although the authority on Monday is expected to vote to delay a toll increase in or near Boston, Wagner said he will ask board members to consider restoring tolls for passenger vehicles between Exits 1 in West Stockbridge and Exit 6 near Springfield as a way to generate money for maintenance of the western end of the turnpike. He said Monday's meeting would be an appropriate time and place for the board to weigh bringing back those tolls as well as a toll in West Newton that also was taken down in 1996, but as of Thursday, the issue was not on the board's agenda for Monday. The Boston toll increase was scheduled to take effect in two stages starting on March 29. The governor, Senate President Therese Murray, D-Plymouth, and House Speaker Robert A. DeLeo, D-Winthrop, and turnpike officials have agreed to use turnpike reserve money to ward off the March 29 toll increase while they negotiate a more comprehensive answer for the state's transportation financing shortfall. The authority had approved the toll increases last month, turning up the heat on legislators to act on a bill to boost the gas tax as a way to prevent the toll hikes. Instead, Thursday's agreement gives legislators some more time to weigh Patrick's bill for a 19-cent increase in the state's 23.5-cent gas tax. Wagner said there is no support in the Legislature for the 19-cent increase Patrick proposed in his transportation bill submitted last month. Wagner said he couldn't say how much of an increase in the gas tax that legislators might support. "I get the clear sense that 10 cents may be too much," Wagner said. The western portion of the turnpike is a separate financial operation from the road east of Route 128. If tolls were reinstated between Exits 1 and 6, Wagner said, it would provide more money for maintaining the western end of the turnpike. "The road is in a terrible state of disrepair," Wagner said. "It's clear the turnpike doesn't have the revenues to maintain that road." Rep. Donald F. Humason, R-Westfield, said he would support restoring tolls between Exits 1 and 6 if the revenues are used to improve the western part of the turnpike. Humason said he is concerned, however, with the plan by legislative leaders to approve a reform bill next week while delaying a possible tax increase until sometime before July 1. Humason said there would not be enough time for the reforms to kick in and save some money. "Put the reforms in place," Humason said. "Let them stand for a year. Let them stand for six months. Give them a chance to work." The authority has lost $12 million a year since it eliminated tolls for passenger vehicles between Exits 1 in West Stockbridge near the New York border and Exit 6 at Interstate 291 in Chicopee in 1996, according to Mary Z. Connaughton, of Framingham, a turnpike board member. Connaughton said she supports reinstating tolls for passenger vehicles in Western Massachusetts to generate money for maintenance for that section of the turnpike. She also wants to reinstate tolls on that section of the road because tolls are set to increase in Boston and the turnpike extension in Boston. Connaughton said bringing back tolls between Exits 1 and 6 would also help assure that the turnpike from Route 128 westward becomes free of tolls in eight years. Under current authority plans, bonds are to be paid off in 2017 on the 123-mile western portion from the New York border to Route 128. Under state law, the tolls are supposed to be removed when construction debt is paid. Connaughton said she is concerned that the commissioner of the state Highway Department could refuse to accept the western end of the turnpike as a state road if it is in poor condition in 2017. Connaughton wants the turnpike authority on Monday to consider restoring tolls for passenger vehicles between Exit 1 and Exit 6. The western end of the turnpike is currently operating at a deficit of about $15 million a year if the authority spends what it should on bridge repairs, paving and other capital projects, according to a report by the state Transportation Finance Commission. The turnpike board's meeting on Monday will center around an expected vote to delay a big toll increase scheduled to take place in Boston and on the turnpike extension east of Route 128. The first stage of the toll increase will boost tolls from $1.25 to $1.50 at the Allston and Weston booths and from $3.50 to $5.50 at the Boston Harbor tunnels. A second toll increase, due to take effect July 1, will raise the tolls at Allston and Weston to $2 and the tunnel tolls to $7. Board members approved those toll increases to help pay off $2.2 billion in debt left from the $14.8 billion Big Dig, maintenance and capital improvements.