Symphony Hall in Springfield due for $1 million renovation. The city got $478,000 from the MassDevelopment Cultural Fund and provided matching funds from unspent bond money, one Springfield official said. The window work is estimated at $750,000 and the lighting system at $250,000. "The windows are not energy efficient," said Patrick J. Sullivan, city director of parks, buildings and recreation management. "This project will end up saving money as well as making the building more comfortable for the patrons." The new lighting control system will enhance performances, Sullivan said. "It is important to keep up with repairs of this building because it is really a strong component of economic development and supporting the arts in the city," he said. In 2004, Symphony Hall benefited from a $850,000 renovation project through a private fund-raising effort. Renovations included padding and upholstery on more than 2,600 seats, interior painting, a new rest room for women, and installation of a stage curtain, draperies and carpeting. Cynthia J. Anzalotti, president of Springfield Performing Arts Development Corp., which manages Symphony Hall and CityStage, said she is pleased that the work will now move forward. "It is a city building and it's part of the community," she said. "Every event we have there is for our community, and benefits our patrons, restaurants, bars, and everything downtown." She is optimistic that work will be completed by early September. The windows are leaky, let in cold and hot air, and adversely affect sound, she said, and the new lighting controls "will make a vast improvement." Chad LaBumbard, technical director, said the current "extremely antiquated" lighting control system was installed 30 years ago. The new system is "industry standard" and will be easier to maintain and repair, he said. SPRINGFIELD - The city is seeking bids for two renovation projects at Symphony Hall with a total cost estimated at $1 million - to refurbish windows, and to replace a lighting control system installed 30 years ago. Bids will be opened on Thursday for a new "theatrical dimming and controls" system, and on April 10 for window renovations that include replacement of perimeter caulk, painting and repairs. The 97-year-old building at Court Square, is city-owned.