Springfield City Council OKs renewal plan designation for Chapman Valve plant site. Still, officials and residents said, the council's 9-0 vote is a welcome sign toward getting the former Chapman Valve site to thrive again. "We've waited a very long time for this. We've looking forward to it being developed," said Susan M. Craven Soto, president of the Indian Orchard Citizens Council. Chapman Valve at Goodwin and Pinevale streets once was the world's largest manufacturers of all kinds of valves, including fire hydrants, and employed nearly 3,500 people. The plant moved here from Boston in 1874. Crane Co., of Chicago, bought the company in 1959 and closed it in 1988. The plant milled uranium at Chapman Valve in the late 1940s in a nuclear power project for the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, N.Y. The U.S. Navy cleaned the site and recent city tests have shown it to be radiation-free, officials have said. But the site also is likely to contain oils, asbestos and polychlorinated biphenyl, commonly known as PCB's, man-made organic chemicals banned in 1979, officials have said. Another problem is the discovery in the past few years of a series of underground tunnels and pits, prompting questions about the strength of the foundation. The Chapman Valve plant has been demolished. The city owns two parcels, or nearly 14 acres. The remaining 39 acres are controlled by private owners, including Crane Co., which still owns about half an acre, said Christopher J. Moskal, senior project manager with the city Office of Planning and Economic Development. The urban renewal designation lets the city begin negotiating with the 39 acres' owners, Brian M. Connors, acting city chief development officer, said before the meeting. The designation must be approved by the state Department of Housing and Community Development. Officials see that as likely in light of Gov. Deval L. Patrick in August announcing a program to speed the cleanup of former industrial sites in the state, including the Chapman Valve property.