Western Mass. stargazers to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei. Meg Thacher, who teaches astronomy at Smith College in Northampton and lives in West Springfield with her husband and two children, is organizing her hometown's star party. It will be held Friday from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. at Mittineague Park. Everyone is invited to come, and anyone with a telescope should bring it along. April presents some interesting celestial scenes. "Saturn looks really lovely at this time of year," Thacher said. Its rings are edge on, enabling sky-gazers to view the brightest of Saturn's many moons. On Friday, the moon is in its first quarter, a perfect time to observe the lunar landscape. "You can really see the craters," she said. Just going outside and looking at the moon with the naked eye is one thing. It can be beautiful, and some details are evident. But add a telescope, and it's a whole new experience. "The level of detail is amazing," Thacher said. If peering at the moon seems too ordinary, what about a nebula? The Orion Nebula is one of the closest star formation regions. Because it is so close to earth, it is a great location to see how stars are born and progress. "It's several times the size of our own solar system," Thacher said. "These are stars formed by dust and gas. The light is so strong that it can push away the dust," she said. Through the telescope, these formations are remarkable to view, she said. Other events in the region are scheduled for 100 Hours of Astronomy. The Springfield Science Museum will host "Stars Over Springfield" on Friday at 7:30 p.m. Amateur astronomer Michael Kozicki will speak on "Saturn's Disappearing Rings." Members of the Springfield Stars Club will be on hand, and participants may gaze at the stars in the museum observatory and through telescopes on the Quadrangle green. The cost is $3 for adults and $2 for children. Amherst College's Wilder Observatory open house at 9 p.m. on Saturday will give people a chance to use the 6-ton Clark Refractor as well as smaller telescopes set up by the Amherst Area Amateur Astronomy Association. The association also will offer a free program, Safe Solar Observing on Saturday from 1 to 2:30 p.m. at the Amherst Common and from 3 to 4:30 p.m. at A2Z Science and Learning Center in Northampton. Stargazing at the Sofinowski will take place sunset to 9:30 p.m. on Saturday at the Sofinowski Land Preserve in Southwick. Stargazers throughout Western Massachusetts will be joining others across the planet this week in celebrating Galileo. The "100 Hours of Astronomy" program is part of an international celebration of the 400th anniversary of Galileo's work. From Thursday through Sunday, astronomers, amateur astronomers and anyone interested in stars and planets will gather to point telescopes skyward. The goal is to get as many people throughout the world to look through a telescope as Galileo did. Advancements by Galileo Galilei, born in Italy around 1564, include making significant improvements to the telescope and astronomical observation, discovering moons of Jupiter, and defending Copernicus's theory that the Earth revolved around the sun, in contrast to the teachings of the Roman Catholic church. He died under house arrest ordered by the Roman Inquisition.