Rhodes, Rivkin top Amherst election. He has taught, been a school librarian, and assistant superintendent at the former Belchertown State School. "I want to bring all that experience" to the committee, he said. Serving on those financial committees gave him an insight into the financial workings of the town budget and he believes that the overriding issue is the budget. Rivkin is chairman of the economics department at Amherst College. He specializes in the economics of education. Rivkin, along with current School Committee member Catherine A. Sanderson, co-founded the Amherst Committee for Excellence in 2007 in an attempt to ensure academic excellence for all children. As a committee member he wants to ensure that all students are intellectually engaged. And he also wants "to bring a sense of open debate and discussion (at School Committee meetings) to focus on data and evidence . . . and most of all to focus on the children." Rhodes Tuesday night credited his committee for helping him win the seat. "I'm ready," he said. "I'm so ready." For Jones Library Board of Trustees Carol J. Gray and Sarah McKee won the two seats beating John M. McDonald III, and Lucy L. McMurrer. Incumbents Merrylees Turner and Ann H. Grose did not seek re-election. John W. Coull, former Chamber of Commerce executive director, won two positions, retaining his position as elector of the Oliver Smith Will, beating out David F. Farnham who had held the seat for a number of years. Coull also beat out Robert B. Kusner for Amherst Redevelopment Authority. Looks like about a 10% turnout in overly enlightened Amherst. But five months ago in the Presidential election, the turnout was close to 80% AMHERST - Irvin E. Rhodes was the big winner in the School Committee race in Tuesday's Annual Town Election, with Steven G. Rivkin finishing second in a three-way race for two seats. Megan D. Rosa a parent who said she was running to ensure students get the best education they can finished third. Incumbents Elaine L. Brighty and Sonia Correa Pope did not seek re-election. Rhodes has been on the Finance Committee and most recently served on the town's Facilitation for Community Choices Committee.