Attorney insists client not competent for trial . The attorney for a mentally ill man accused of stabbing an Athens-Clarke police officer nearly to death wants another jury to consider whether the defendant is competent to stand trial. Assistant public defender Benjamin Pearlman is arguing that, after a one-day civil trial last fall, a jury contradicted a state psychologist's finding that Steven Anthony Eberhart is incompetent. And, he said, mental health professionals still believe Eberhart isn't sane enough to understand what he did or help in his defense. Pearlman keeps in contact with the staff at East Central Regional Hospital, and every specialist involved in treating Eberhart "continues to have the opinion that he is still not competent to stand trial," Pearlman argued in documents filed last month in Clarke County Superior Court. Pearlman can't defend Eberhart effectively, because his client can't hold a rational conversation about his case, he said. "It's basically unconstitutional to put a person like that on trial, and it's my responsibility to say that Steven's not in the state of mind to stand trial," Pearlman said. "Even if a jury found he might have been competent before, when someone has mental health issues, their status can change month to month, day to day," he said. Authorities say Eberhart, 45, attacked Sgt. Courtney Gale with a kitchen knife on Dec. 11, 2007, repeatedly stabbing the uniformed officer as she worked an off-duty security guard job in the Kroger store on Alps Road. Gale spent two weeks in a coma, had several surgeries to save one of her legs and went through extensive physical and cognitive rehabilitation. A grand jury indicted Eberhart on a criminal attempt to commit murder charge and 10 other felonies, and in September, a civil panel in Clarke County Superior Court determined that Eberhart, though he has a history of schizophrenia, is competent to stand trial. Jurors heard a state Department of Human Resources psychologist testify that Eberhart continued to "experience psychotic delusions, consistent with his diagnosis of paranoid schizophrenia," according to court documents. Eberhart has been held at the Augusta psychiatric hospital since soon after his arrest in December 2007. He couldn't attend his own arraignment hearing Feb. 4, so the court entered a not guilty plea on his behalf. Pearlman filed the request for a second competency trial immediately after the jury finding. Prosecutors are not required to respond, and Superior Court Chief Judge Lawton Stephens has yet to rule on the request. Pearlman already asked the state Court of Appeals to overturn the competency decision, but the court dismissed the appeal in December, stating it lacked jurisdiction. District Attorney Ken Mauldin declined to comment on the request for another competency hearing, other than to say, "Of course, (Eberhart's) already been found competent by a jury, and they are raising that issue again, saying he's not competent at this time."