Family, friends mourn four children killed in fire. ST. PARIS — Scott Randall threw up and cried when he saw the mobile home ravaged by a fire that killed four children. "The whole house was gone, especially the living room," he said. "It looked like an explosion blew out the wall." Nathan Skaggs, 2; Patrick Snelling, 8; Breonna Snelling, 10; and Cassandra Karg, 10, died in a fire at 2:46 a.m. Saturday, March 21, at 11690 U.S. 36, Lot No. 15, in the St. Paris Court West mobile home park, just west of St. Paris, according to the Champaign County Sheriff's Office. Phillip Skaggs Jr., 33; Christina Gregg, 33; and Natalia Skaggs, 8-months, escaped. They were treated at Mercy Memorial Hospital in Urbana and released, according to a sheriff's office news release. The relationship between the children and the adults was not described, although Randall said Karg lived down the street and was visiting for the night. Randall lives at Lot No. 5 and has known the family for about six years. The family moved into the mobile home a few months ago and the children are good friends with Randall's son. "I still don't know how to break it to my son," Randall said. Brandyberry stopped by their home Friday night, ate some cookies and talked with them. They were supposed to meet up again this morning at Kiser Lake to fish. Breonna Snelling did well in school and Patrick Snelling loved sports, he said. "They are good kids ... They are the cutest little things," he said. Brandyberry visited Gregg at Mercy Memorial Hospital on Saturday morning. "Those kids were her life. They would go without for their kids ... She is so scared she can't even hold her own little baby," he said. The mobile home had electrical problems, shocking people who touched parts of it, Randall said. The cause of the fire remains undetermined, said Shane Cartmill, public information officer for the Division of the State Fire Marshal. An electrical engineer will examine the mobile home for additional testing on Monday, Cartmill said. "We have not ruled out electrical as a possible cause," he said. Tabitha Roderick, 15, was sleeping across the street at her grandmother's home at Lot No. 51 when the fire started. "My grandmother came in and woke me up," she said. "I came out and all I could really see was smoke and flames and the fire trucks. It looked like it was really bad." She had played with the children a few hours before the fire. The boys played football, and Roderick and Breonna Snelling made rhymes. Tammy Danner lives at Lot No. 7 and found out about the fire from a phone call at 4 a.m. She often saw the children riding their bikes or playing outside while waiting for the school bus in the morning. "It's awful, this is terrible," Danner said. "I can't even imagine it being one of my boyfriend's kids ... It could have been any one of these trailers."