Incarcerated father misses daughter's funeral. Megan Gildow brings you the latest from the offices, halls and classrooms of local schools. ST. PARIS — While hundreds of mourners paid their last respects to Cassie Karg and three other children who died in a recent trailer fire in St. Paris, Cassie's father mourned the loss in a prison cell in Orient, Ohio. Family members, prison officials and funeral home staff provided different stories about why Ricky Karg Jr. was unable to visit his daughter one last time before she was buried last weekend. Karg, who is serving a sentence on charges of receiving stolen property and failure to comply, was told of his daughter's death during a visitation period on March 23, about two days after the fire, said Jackie Rutherford, his sister and Cassie's aunt. While the family and the funeral home requested that he be allowed to visit his daughter, the request was eventually denied, she said. Instead, she said, Karg wrote a letter that was placed in his daughter's casket during a viewing Friday. "He's not a hardened criminal and I think he should have had a chance to see his daughter," Rutherford said. The public viewing was scheduled to take place at Graham Middle School, but the correctional facility's policy prohibits inmates from visiting schools, said Angela Hill, a public information officer at the reception center. The facility also tried to schedule a private viewing, Hill said, but prison officials were not able to do so because the funeral home was unable to provide a specific time when the casket would be available. "Because there were so many factors, we weren't able to make the arrangements, which had to be done in advance to allow (Ricky Karg) to get to a private viewing," Hill said. But Dave Vernon, director of Vernon's Funeral Home in Urbana, said he tried to work with the state and the family to coordinate a special visit, going as far as offering to transport the casket to Mechanicsburg, where it would be closer to the Correctional Reception Center in Orient where Ricky Karg. Jr. is incarcerated. "It wasn't a matter of scheduling on our behalf," he said.