Madison will dump assessors . DANIELSVILLE - Madison County commissioners voted Monday to wipe clean the county Board of Tax Assessors by dismissing all four members. The county attorney will draft a letter of dismissal for the assessors laying out the reasons they're being dismissed and letting them know when they can appear before commissioners to tell their side of the story. Monday's vote, which was unanimous, comes after commissioners voted to take away the assessors' power over personnel and after Commission Chairman Anthony Dove requested that all the assessors resign. The tax assessors office and its governing board have been in turmoil for years and failed to finish the county's tax digest on time for nearly a decade. The chronically late digests - compilations of the value of all taxable county property - have caused confusion for taxpayers, who may have to pay two years' worth of taxes in 2009, Dove said at Monday's meeting. "When you're hired to do a job, if you do not do your job in a week, you're let go - certainly, if you do not do that job in years," he said. Dove said he was forced to take action after the assessors recommended only one candidate in four months to fill the long-open job of chief appraiser and after the interim chief offered her resignation this month. Commissioners Stanley Thomas and John Pethel agreed that problems with the assessors had gone on long enough. "Every section of the county, every taxpayer is concerned about this tax situation," Thomas said. Although the assessors board's chairman has promised to bring this year's digest in on time, "we're further behind now than we have been in the last two or three years," Pethel said. "I don't know how he intends to get the digest out without a chief appraiser." Commissioners voted to dismiss the assessors after a brief closed-door session Monday night. Commissioners also said they would vote next month on Dove's recommendation for a new chief appraiser. Before closing the meeting to the public, Commissioner Mike Youngblood pointed out that Board of Assessors Chairman David Ragland has been on the board for only seven months. Assessors Jim Escoe and Larry Stewart, who were appointed by commissioners in August 2005, attended Monday's meeting. Ragland and board Vice Chairwoman Samantha Garland, who was appointed in April 2004, were not there. Escoe said after the meeting he's approached commissioners at least a couple of times to explain the problems in the tax office, but he's been ignored. "They don't want to know what the problem is," he said. "They think the problem exists in everything." The assessors don't plan on backing down by resigning, and Escoe said he would take his case to a judge. "I relish this; I want this," he said. "Now we can go and get this out in the public."