‘The Fish Man' gets his own place. When Ernest Shivers stands over a vat of frying fish, good things happen. How else do you come to be known as “The Fish Man” by people from as far as Texas and Washington, D.C.? Shivers has spent more than a decade traveling to festivals and football games around the country, where he unhitches a trailer and goes to work frying up croaker, whiting, perch and pretty much any other good-tasting seafood he can find. Now, he's going full time with a restaurant that opened this month on White Street about a mile east of downtown Rock Hill. Shivers hopes customers at the new joint, called Ernie's Place, will learn the reason behind his nickname. “People line up just to get that fish,” Shivers said. “They like my cooking. I think it's just God's gift, because my ingredients really aren't that complicated.” At 57, Shivers is ready to do what he enjoys after a life spent in various jobs. He's driven a truck, fixed cars and worked in textile mills. But the need to fry has never left him. Dressed in white slacks, a chef's hat and a red apron and bandanna, Shivers looks as at home in the kitchen as Tiger Woods on the 18th hole at Augusta. It has been this way since Shivers was 16, cooking his own dinner every night while he earned his GED. “I was just meant to be a cook,” he said. “I tried all kinds of things, but cooking stuck with me.” Any owner will tell you that running a restaurant is a grueling business. The building on White Street has changed hands a number of times over the years. But Shivers says he'll get plenty of help from his wife, Thomasenia, and son Shaune, 26, who helps with the cooking and is said to make a mean peach cobbler. Shivers has already proven himself to an audience with high standards, said friend A.C. Jamison. That would be the students and alumni at Columbia's Benedict College. They flock to The Fish Man's trailer every year at the annual Harambee festival. Jamison, the father of former University of North Carolina basketball star and NBA standout Antawn Jamison, stopped in for a cheeseburger one afternoon last week. He knows Shivers through the Elks Club, where they both are members. Turns out, they don't call Shivers “The Burger Man,” but he makes those pretty well, too. At Benedict, Jamison said, they know the difference between a real cook and a pretender. “If you don't know what you're doing, you won't get invited back,” he said. “When it comes to food, they don't play. If they don't like something, they'll let you know.” Aside from seafood and burgers, the menu at Ernie's Place includes turkey wings, hot dogs and hush puppies. Monday brings the rib plate special, with beef stew not far behind on Tuesday. But the fish, Shivers hopes, will keep them coming back. The secret lies in the mix of spices and breading that he uses to coat the fish before dropping them into the fryer. So what's the recipe? “I don't give that away,” Shivers said. “Somebody will try to duplicate it.” Like a magician, “The Fish Man” doesn't reveal his secrets.