County lifts burn ban. The Henderson County Commissioners Court lifted the five-week-old burn ban Tuesday. With the threat of wildfires greatly reduced by heavy rains, commissioners unanimously voted for an end to the ban. County Fire Marshal John Holcomb presented the commissioners with the latest information from the Texas Forest Service, showing the county in the blue category on the Keetch-Byrum Drought Index indicating ample moisture in the soil. According to Athens Review rainfall records, about seven inches fell last week. “I make a motion to lift the burn ban immediately,” Precinct 3 Commissioner Ronny Lawrence said. County Judge David Holstein noted that the ban, which had been in effect since February 11, was lifted as of 9:45 a.m.In other action, commissioners voted 3-2 to deny a request from Pct. 4 Constable Rick Stewart for a larger patrol vehicle, but left the door open to discuss the issue during budget talks beginning in June. Stewart told commissioners in January that he had difficulty exiting his Chevrolet Impala patrol car during an incident in Frankston in which he fatally shot 29-year-old Jason Jermaine Cumby of Athens. He asked for a larger car or a Chevrolet S-10 pick-up. Pct. 4 Commissioner Jerry West made the motion to approve Stewart’s request. “I felt that it needed to be addressed because of the situation in Frankston,” West said. Pct. 1 Commissioner Joe Hall seconded West’s motion. “Big guys do have a major problem when they get in and out of some of these cars,” Hall said. “Some of these vehicles they drive, I couldn’t drive them.” Pct. 2 Commissioner Wade McKinney objected to make the change so close to the beginning of work on the 2010 budget. “I know we’re asking a great deal of them by not doing it, but I’m looking to the coming budget year,” McKinney said. West said Stewart and others had asked for larger vehicles in past budget sessions without success. West and Hall voted in favor of allowing Stewart to get a new vehicle. McKinney, Holstein and Pct. 3 Commissioner Ronny Lawrence were opposed. On other agenda items, commissioners approved: a contract to be presented by the Henderson County Sheriff’s Department to other counties for the purposes of housing out-of-county inmates in the Henderson County Jail; a contract with Marex group for software to be used for digitizing court records dating from 1950; a contract with Diminsion Imaging to scan the records; a 2008 bill from Templeton Construction for work on the jail in the amount of $34,070.05 (the vote was 4-1 with McKinney opposed); and bills from 2009 in the amount of $564,740.07.