Analysis: PA officials welcome failure of Schalit talks. Some Palestinian Authority officials in Ramallah have welcomed the failure of the prisoner exchange negotiations between Israel and Hamas as good news. Palestinian women attend a protest held by the Islamic Jihad movement calling for the release of prisoners jailed in Israel. Photo: AP "I know several Palestinian officials here who were happy to hear that the talks between Israel and Hamas had collapsed," he said. "They were concerned that such a deal would embolden Hamas and undermine the credibility of Fatah." The reopening of the crossings, especially the Rafah terminal, would only help Hamas tighten its grip on Gaza, the official pointed out. "We must not forget that Hamas seized power in the Gaza Strip through a military coup [in 2007]. As such, Hamas is not a legitimate authority there," he said. The PA was also worried the release of hundreds of Hamas operatives to their homes in the West Bank would have created a big headache for its security forces. The PA would have preferred to see many of the Hamas prisoners and their families "relocated" to other areas, such as the Gaza Strip. Hassan Salameh, Ibrahim Hamed, Abdullah Barghouti, Abbas a-Sayed and Jamal Abu al-Hija were behind one of Hamas's deadliest military infrastructures in the West Bank. As experts in preparing various types of explosive devices, they are responsible for the killing of hundreds of people during the second intifada. Abbas's aides are not worried as much about the parties that would be held for the released Hamas prisoners as about the high probability the released men would rebuild their movement's military infrastructure in the West Bank and resume terror activities not only against Israel, but also against the PA. The crackdown, PA officials explained, was a preemptive measure designed to thwart any attempt by Hamas to extend its control to the West Bank. As far as these officials are concerned, the tough anti-Hamas measures are "working." Today, there's almost no such thing as a Hamas political or military leadership in the West Bank, since most of the movement's prominent figures are either in Israeli prisons or in Abbas's detention centers. Another PA official said the only way to "minimize the damage" resulting from a prisoner exchange deal with Hamas was by persuading Israel to release a large number of inmates as a gesture to Abbas and Fatah. He said it would be a "disaster" for Abbas if Israel released important prisoners such as Fatah leader Marwan Barghouti in the context of a deal with Hamas and not Fatah.