Commissioners hear from TxDOT on bridges. Texas Department of Transportation representative Richard Harper told Lamar County Commissioners Monday TxDOT has simplified the bridge repair process for counties, making it easier and quicker to begin work on matching funds projects. Harper said the list of structurally deficient bridges in Lamar County eligible to be replaced in the federal program can be speeded up if the county provides the paperwork involved in the matching funds process, but the county no longer has to wait months on the paperwork to begin its own work. “The process has been shortened to allow work to begin much quicker,” he said. Harper said TxDOT has provided the county with a current list of 16 structurally deficient bridges. “All the county has to do now is submit its list of bridges it will repair as matching funds for the bridges TxDOT will repair or replace,” Harper said. “As soon as that is done, the county can begin work on those projects, and the state can begin work on the structurally deficient bridges.” In other action, commissioners issued a resolution formally approving the application to the Office of the Attorney General, Crime Victims Services Division for funding for the office of Lamar County Victim Witness Coordinator for the years of 2010 and 2011. The court also hired Ginger Cook of Funding Solutions to perform grant writing services for the 2009 Assistance to Firefighters grant for the Lamar County Volunteer Fire Departments. Lamar County Elections Coordinator Russ Towers asked commissioners to approve a licensing agreement with election Systems & Software, Inc., that would allow the county to print its own ballots in cases where the ballots are running short in any election. Commissioners approved the software licensing, training and hardware at a cost of $4,870. Towers said the move would ensure the county never runs short of ballots. Denise Dority of Resource Management & Consulting Company was given the right by the court to advertise for materials for water line replacement through the Texas Community Development Block Grant Small Towns Environment Program. Commissioners also approved Hayter Engineering for services for the rural Community Affairs Community Development Program projects, and awarded administrative services to Resource Management & Consulting Company. Commissioners also declared the month of April “Fair Housing Month” in the drive for equal housing opportunities. The court set the time to demolish and remove the Hickory House building at 35 Graham Street at 8:30 a.m. April 1, when commissioners will bring their equipment to the site and erase the building. Commissioners also: received a certificate of completion from the County Judges and Commissioners Associa-tion of training for Commissioner Lonnie Layton; approved official bond and oath for Brandi Taylor as deputy clerk in the office of the Lamar County and District Attorney; approved a line-item transfer for Constable Gene Hobbs, moving gasoline funds to a capital account for the purchase of a vehicle; heard County Treasurer Shirley Fults’ report for the month of January and a quarterly investment report; and, heard County Auditor Kevin Parson’s report for January.