'He will not be forgotten,Kate, that I promise you'. The remains of Stephen Carroll are carried in Banbridge yesterday 'To the love of my life. I will never forget you. I love you now and always, Kate' IT was just after 1.20pm when one simple act illustrated the truly seismic changes brought about by the North's peace process. And then, in the middle of a Northern Irish town and watched by Protestants and Catholics alike, he walked behind the coffin of a murdered policeman. Twelve years ago -- when the last Northern policeman was shot dead -- such a public tribute by a southern policing figure would have triggered a riot. Most children watching the sad procession yesterday never knew what it was like to live with the almost daily torrent of bombings and shootings. They do now. Many had heard a police wife tell in a radio interview how their 12-year-old son tearfully begged his father not to go to work this week. He didn't want him to get shot. Some of those who once followed a violent path are now in the North's government. Some are not, but they still came to Banbridge yesterday. They faced the TV cameras and appealed for the killings to stop and said there was no popular support for the dinosaurs still wedded to the past. The requiem Mass for Mr Carroll brought together a remarkable coalition of former terrorists, police officers, church leaders and politicians of all hues. Banbridge also turned out in force to say goodbye. Thousands lined the three-mile route from Mr Carroll's home to St Therese's church. A three-minute silence was held in the centre of the town and then the cortege passed, 18 officers walking ahead of the hearse, six motorcycle outriders ahead of them. A piper played a lament called the 'Flowers of the Forest' and mourners wept as the hearse passed by. Amid the roses, carnations and lilies, a floral tribute had also been sent from England by the family of murdered soldier Sapper Patrick Azimkar. As well as cards from his own parents, son Shane, siblings and grandchildren, Mr Carroll's heartbroken widow Kate left her own simple tribute. It said: "To the love of my life. I will never forget you. I love you now and always, Kate." Then, she watched as her husband's casket, clad in a PSNI flag, was borne into the church by six fellow officers. "He will nor be forgotten Kate, I promise you," Mr Orde said, adding Mr Carroll (48) knew an unexpected violent act like this could one day happen given the hatred in some hearts. Canon Liam Stevenson, the Banbridge parish priest, told mourners the killing of Mr Carroll was designed to destabilise the peace process. The word patriot, he said, had been horribly abused. "The killers of Constable Carroll have abused the term patriotism. "A perfectly laudable aspiration such as patriotism is robbed of its intrinsic value when it's allied to violence and death in pursuit of its objectives." Bishop McAreavey ended by sending a direct message to the killers: "You are greatly mistaken. Your way of thinking is backward looking. As soft rain began to fall outside, Bishop McAreavey's words were met by hope, tears and thunderous applause.