Mum denies making up child death story in deportation battle. Nigerian woman Pamela Izevbekhai yesterday insisted she had not fabricated a story about the death of her baby daughter in order to be allowed to remain in Ireland. Ms Izevbekhai "totally rejected" allegations that she manufactured the story to bolster her case against deportation. "I did have a daughter Elizabeth and she did die as I said," said the Sligo-based mother who has been fighting a long-running legal battle against deportation. She has consistently maintained that her first daughter died at the age of 17 months after being subjected to female genital mutilation (FGM) and has argued that if the family is sent back to Nigeria her two younger daughters would be subjected to the same procedure. The mayor of Sligo, Veronica Cawley, yesterday stood by her decision to hold a civic reception for Ms Izevbekhai last year while a spokesman for the Sligo-based Let Them Stay organisation said yesterday's reports raised more questions than they answered. Cllr Cawley said some people had suggested that she should apologise for holding the civic reception but she insisted: "I have nothing to apologise for." At that function in Sligo Town Hall, Pamela wept as she said that Elizabeth would always be with the family and was a guardian angel for her sisters Naomi and Jemima. Cllr Cawley urged people not to jump to conclusions until all the facts come out. "I have always said that the purpose of the civic reception was to highlight the barbaric practice of female genital mutilation and today I repeat my call for a worldwide ban on this torture," said Cllr Cawley. "Before Pamela came to live in the north west, most us had never heard of FGM but there is a huge awareness now.'' "These reports are only a snap shot in a long-running investigation which is not over yet," said Cllr Cawley. Cllr Cawley said that while a number of people had gone on local radio yesterday saying she should apologise for holding a civic reception for Ms Izevbekhai "everyone who phoned me today was supportive". Supporters of Ms Izevbekhai pointed out that while Lagos-based obstetrician Dr Joseph Unokanjo was now claiming that he had never delivered a baby called Elizabeth Izevbekhai, and that he had never treated her for post-FGM blood loss, a doctor of the same name has in the past given interviews to RTE and Ocean FM in Sligo saying the opposite and supporting Pamela's account. They also pointed out that he is now saying that the baby he delivered for Pamela in 2000 was her first baby but she has a teenage son Adrian who lives with his father Tony in Nigeria. A spokesman for Let Them Stay questioned why this material had been leaked now and whether there was an agenda behind it. "The safety of these two little girls should still be the main issue and I wonder is the Irish government saying that it is safe to send them back to Nigeria?" he said. "We would like to see Dr Unokanjo come on Irish radio again and see what he has to say now." He said supporters were concerned about why these claims were being made now, four years after Ms Izevbekhai first outlined her fears.