Viaduct on pace; steel is key. COLUMBUS -- The warmer temperatures are making the 33rd Avenue viaduct reconstruction workers’ jobs much easier as construction continues on pace to meet the contractor’s Nov. 3 targeted date to reopen the structure. The contracted deadline for the viaduct to be open to traffic is Dec. 5 with an incentive of $3,315 per day, up to 60 days, if the project is completed prior to the deadline. Penalties were also included in the contract for each day the viaduct was closed beyond Dec. 5. Dan Cramer, project manager for Cramer & Associates Inc., said the weather has provided better working conditions and hopes it persists. “It just makes the work a lot more comfortable and a lot more productive,” Cramer said. But, he said, this early in the construction the timeline does not provide a good indicator as regards when the structure will be completed. “These schedules don’t mean squat,” Cramer said. “When you see the steel show up, that’s when the schedule will mean something.” The support cables are already completed, but the timing is heavily dependent upon the delivery of the archway, which is being fabricated by Capital Steel Co. in Lincoln. Capital Steel “is currently working on it,” Cramer said, and as for delivery, “we are still shooting for early June.” The 10-foot-diameter, 96-feet-deep drill hole was completed by subcontractor Longfellow Drilling last week and the placement of the steel rebar cage and the concrete pour was completed by Cramer & Associates, the primary contractor for the $12.9 million contract for bridge removal and replacement, road work, concrete pavement, street lighting and new sidewalks. To date, the six pier support shafts on the north side have been completed and the remaining three are expected to be completed within the next two weeks, Cramer said. “We are moving to the south side,” he said, and the goal is to complete “one this week and two next week. The columns (are scheduled) to be poured consistently, one or two a week for the next month.” Removal of the north side was completed last week, which included excavation of the north side wall, Cramer said, and the erection of the north side retention wall, expected to begin this week, is a few weeks ahead of schedule.