City woman fined for false assault accusation. COLUMBUS -- A 27-year-old Columbus woman who admitted to falsely accusing a Meadow Grove man of sexual assault in May 2008 has been fined and ordered to pay restitution for lying about the incident. Janae McMahon was fined $150 and ordered to pay $1,671 restitution on Wednesday in Platte County Court for her conviction of attempted false reporting. McMahon pleaded no contest to the reduced charge in connection with the May 28 incident after recanting her story of a sexual assault stemming from an encounter with the man she met over the Internet. The defendant, who was initially charged with false reporting, successfully completed court-ordered mental health counseling prior to her sentencing. McMahon paid the restitution for the police and medical expenses of the assault investigation late last year. Platte County Attorney Sandra Allen said she hoped the sentence imposed on McMahon didn’t make law enforcement investigators “gun-shy” about making sexual assault arrests in the future. “On the face of it, (a fine and restitution) is not much of a deterrent to someone making a false accusation,’’ Allen said. On the other hand, people who falsely accuse others of crimes probably aren’t deterred by the threat of punishment, she said. Defense attorney Denise Kracl said Thursday McMahon’s successful completion of counseling, which her client began even before being ordered to by the court, was a factor at sentencing. The judge checked McMahon’s progress and compliance with counseling requirements over several months and was “very fair” in giving her that opportunity, Kracl said. “This has been a really unfortunate situation for everyone involved,’’ the defense attorney said. “Janae is resuming her life and doing the best she can to put the whole incident behind her. This is as good of an outcome as she could have expected.” False reporting is a Class I misdemeanor is punishable by a maximum of one year imprisonment, $1,000 fine or both and no minimum sentence. Attempted false reporting is a Class II misdemeanor is punishable by a maximum of six months in jail, $1,000 fine or both and no minimum sentence. The county attorney’s office dismissed a first-degree sexual assault charge against 38-year-old Richard Pehrson II of Meadow Grove in late-June. The man faced up to 50 years in prison if convicted. McMahon later recanted her story after Pehrson underwent a polygraph examination, and she was brought in by law enforcement authorities for further questioning. Pehrson was held for about a week in the Platte County Detention Facility following his arrest. His bond was set at 10 percent of $150,000 and he was placed on unpaid administrative leave from his job as a psych tech at Faith Regional Center in Norfolk. Pehrson, who also served as a volunteer firefighter, got his job back when McMahon’s lie came to light. Allen sent letters to Pehrson’s employer and the fire department explaining how he had been falsely accused in the case. “He was not terribly angry,’’ said Allen recalling a telephone conversation with the Meadow Grove man. “He was happy to have his name cleared.” Pehrson could not be reached this week for his reaction to his accuser’s sentencing. The Meadow Grove man and city woman, according to court documents, met over the Internet in early-May and were corresponding by e-mail for three weeks before the incident. The two met once in a public park in Norfolk. Later in May, Pehrson was invited by McMahon to Columbus late the night of May 27 to watch a movie. In the early-morning hours of May 28, Pehrson said the two had consensual sex. In the days following the incident, McMahon sent Pehrson e-mails saying how much she missed talking to him. That’s not the story McMahon initially told authorities. According to the arrest affidavit filed in the case by Columbus Investigator Gregory Sealock, the woman did invite Pehrson over to her home to watch a movie, but she later got tired and wanted to go to bed. The woman said she allowed Pehrson to sleep on her couch because he had been drinking beer and didn’t want to drive to his Meadow Grove home, Sealock stated. The woman later “awoke to find Pehrson in bed with her” and described a sexual assault in graphic detail. Defense attorney Donna Tonderum, who represented Pehrson while serving as a deputy in the Platte County Public Defender’s Office, said her former client felt “humiliated by the whole experience.” Tonderum said Pehrson was expecting McMahon to spend some time in the county lockup. “I think he’d be very disappointed by the outcome,” she said.