More rural residents self-employed. OMAHA -- A University of Nebraska sociologist says the state’s waning rural population is changing the way people do business. Randy Cantrell, with the university’s Rural Initiative, said in most rural counties, between 18 percent and 30 percent or more of jobs are now due to self-employment. And, that accounts for virtually all job growth in rural areas. He believes the popularity of self-employment is on the rise in rural Nebraska. Cantrell hasn’t been able to put his finger on such details through his research, namely an annual rural poll that surveys rural residents on well-being, policy and work issues. But he has a theory: The rural poll is asking the wrong question. In the past, people have been asked if they have a business. Cantrell realizes that may be leaving out those who still get a paycheck from their employers, but technically are private contractors. He used the example of inbound telemarketers, who he thinks can rightfully assert they have a business. As rural areas continue to see their population numbers fall, Cantrell said he expects that to put pressure on employers to shift away from the traditional way of doing business and rely on private contractors. “There’s still a demand for service but not enough to support a business of several employees,” he said. Cantrell details the phenomenon and other observations about Nebraska’s economic and demographic changes in a new report based on 2007 census data and other federal statistics. Census data released this week shows the state’s three largest counties ” Douglas, Lancaster and Sarpy ” grew by 14,240 people collectively in 2008. The remaining 90 counties declined by 281. Cantrell said he plans to revise his report with the newly released information. The rural poll will take another shot at the “business” question this year, which is on its way to 7,000 Nebraska households. The survey is conducted by the University of Nebraska-Lincoln’s Center for Applied Rural Innovation in cooperation with the Rural Initiative and UNL’s Department of Agricultural Economics. Cantrell’s study also notes the continued decline of those under age 20 living in rural areas. All but seven counties in the state declined in this population group during this decade, he said in the report. Cherry County, for example, saw a 20 percent drop in people under age 20 between 2000 and 2007. He attributes the changes to people leaving the state ” likely for economic reasons ” and a decline in birth rates.