Students from 9 schools join in music event. COLUMBUS -- Most of the student musicians had never met before, and they only had a few hours to get in harmony before they would be performing together. Students from the Nebraska Centennial Conference were at Scotus Central Catholic Saturday for the honor band and vocal clinic. Several dozen students from the nine conference schools spent the morning and early afternoon practicing songs for concert held at the school later that day. Scotus had about 30 students taking part in the band and vocal concert. Guest conductors lead each of the groups. Dr. David Bohnert, director of bands at Wayne State College, lead the band, and Dr. Rhonda Fuelberth, associate professor of music education at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, directed the choir. Students had been learning their respective music a few weeks prior to the clinic, but Saturday was their first time performing as a group. That is one aspect that Scotus Senior Nicholas Raimondo enjoys about the clinic. “We are all working together instead of competing against each other,” Raimondo said. Students also said another part that they like about the clinic is the opportunity to perform with different directors. The instructors each brought their own unique style to the clinic. Bohnert told the students as he was directing them during practice, that he wanted them to experience what it is like performing with a large and different group of people. “If you learn nothing else today, at least learn to listen. This is where we go from 70 different individuals to one band,” Bohnert said. “You have to put yourself in the big picture.” Students were chosen for the clinic by their instructors and by meeting certain criteria. The host site for the event rotates between the nine schools in the conference. E.J. Gardner, vocal music director at Scotus, said the arts, especially performing arts such as band and choir, help students develop into well-rounded people. “There is a music intelligence part of the brain, just like there is a math intelligence and a science intelligence. This is a way to feed the brain,” Gardner said of the clinic. Scotus Central Catholic's Trenton Kuta and other students from the Centennial Conferece rehearse a song during choir practice Saturday afternoon at Scotus Central Catholic High School in Columbus. Telegram photo by Blaine McCartney