Couple found dead in condo. An elderly husband and wife were found dead Monday night in their downtown Hanover condominium in an apparent murder-suicide, authorities said yesterday. The bodies of Elliott Lewis, 84, and Barbara Lewis, 82, were discovered by two Hanover police officers, who responded to the complex at 85 S. Main St. after the couple's adult son grew concerned about their welfare and called the police. Yesterday, authorities released few details and said they were awaiting results of autopsies conducted by the state medical examiner's office, which should be released today. "We have some preliminary assessments from people on scene, but it's inappropriate for me to say," Senior Assistant Attorney General Kirsten Wilson said during an afternoon press conference outside the Hanover police station. Authorities did say that soon after arriving at the condo Monday night, it was determined that only the Lewises were involved and that the public was not in danger. "There are no outside forces," Hanover police Chief Nick Giaccone said. "The community can rest assured that it is safe. It was fairly obvious from the beginning." Wilson declined to say if authorities had pinpointed who died first, a motive or a weapon, or if they had found a note at the scene. Authorities said they were interviewing the Lewises' neighbors and relatives yesterday. Giaccone said the Lewises had two adult sons and other family members scattered throughout the region and country. One of their sons, Spencer Lewis of Bethel, Vt., declined to comment yesterday when reached by phone. "I am beside myself right now," said Spencer Lewis, a local singer-songwriter. Giaccone said the Hanover police had no prior contact with Elliott or Barbara Lewis. "From the police perspective, they were not generally known to us," Giaccone said. The Lewises' 900-square-foot condominium is part of a 55-and-over complex adjacent to the CVS parking lot in downtown Hanover. The Lewises had lived in the building for about 10 years, Giaccone said. They were renters, according to Hanover Town Hall records.