Alleged assault victim lives with man's ex-wife. The man who claims that former Epsom police chief Henry Farrin assaulted him is the roommate of Farrin's former wife. Farrin, 43, was arrested March 11 on a charge of simple assault for allegedly attacking Howard Brown, 27, in the restroom of the American Legion Post 31 in Penacook. In a stalking petition filed with Concord District Court, Brown wrote that Farrin choked him and lifted him off his feet. When the charges were first publicized, neither the police nor Farrin's attorney, Tony Soltani, would say what the connection was between the two men. Since then, Brown has told the Monitor that he is a friend of Farrin's ex-wife. "That's what I think his beef is with me," Brown said. Brown said he became friends with Farrin's former wife when he lived in an apartment next to the one where she was staying while going through her divorce. Brown later moved to a two-bedroom apartment and told Farrin's ex-wife that she could rent a room from him if she needed a place to stay. "I never even sneezed in this guy's direction my entire life," Brown said. According to Brown's account, Brown, Farrin and Farrin's ex-wife were all at the American Legion, with separate groups of friends, on the night of March 6. Brown is not a member of the Legion, but he said he came with a colleague who is a member. Brown said he went to the bathroom, and Farrin walked in after him. As Brown was about to leave the bathroom, Farrin started speaking to him. "All of a sudden I hear the guy say something: 'How does it feel to be a chump?' " Brown said. " (I said) 'Excuse me? If anyone's a chump, it's you.' " Brown said Farrin walked toward him and asked Brown to repeat himself, which he did. "He instantly looks at me, pins me up against a wall, picks me up off my feet," Brown said. Brown said he knew Farrin was a former police officer, so he did not hit him back, although he did insult Farrin verbally. "I never touched him," Brown said. At that point, Brown said, a woman standing outside the door heard the scuffle and opened the door enough to see Brown pinned up against the wall. She called for help, and several men rushed into the bathroom and separated Farrin and Brown. Brown said he decided to file for a restraining order and press charges with the police because he was scared Farrin would one day hurt him or someone else. "He's an ex-chief of a police department," Brown said. "What's he doing grabbing a guy in a men's room? He called me a chump." Soltani said he plans to bring witnesses to contradict Brown's account and will try to discredit him.