Judge bars developer from sites. A Merrimack County Superior Court judge yesterday denied a request by Concord developer Kevin Guay to have access to his properties while state officials conduct a criminal investigation into possible environmental violations. Judge Diane Nicolosi wrote, "the State's interest in maintaining the integrity of its crime scene and investigation warrants the temporary exclusion of Mr. Guay and his lawyer from the property until the search is completed." Nicolosi said the search warrant is similar to grand jury proceedings, which the court has recognized as being secret. "It is in the public's best interest for the State to work at the site unfettered and to accomplish any necessary follow up without interference from the public or a criminal defendant," she wrote. On Thursday morning, the Concord Police executed two search warrants and cordoned off Guay's properties at 180 Clinton St. and on Villanova Drive. The Department of Environmental Services took soil samples and began excavating. A state helicopter was involved in the action. No one except for tenants was allowed on or off the property, including Guay. At 1 p.m. yesterday, Guay's attorney Brandon Giuda filed a petition with the court asking for access to the property. "I'd think in the U.S., which is not a police state, observation of the police's extensive intrusion into someone's property, where they're destroying by excavating, should be observed," Giuda told the Monitor. "We want to see what they're doing." At a hearing two hours later, Lauren Noether, senior assistant attorney general for the state Justice Department's environmental protection bureau, responded that Guay should not be allowed onto the property. She argued that his presence could compromise the investigation, jeopardize the safety of officers and be a health risk. During the hearing, several new details emerged about the investigation. Detective Sgt. John Thomas of the Concord Police Department's criminal division testified that officials started work at the Villanova Drive property, which they hoped to finish yesterday evening. They planned to start work on Clinton Street today, and hoped to finish by the end of the day. According to Noether, the warrant gave state officials seven days to finish their search, but Thomas said he hoped it could be completed by tonight. "There's a lot of money involved from the city and the state," Thomas said. "We'll try to finish tomorrow, but we don't know what's in there. If we find what we're expecting to find, it could be longer." On the Villanova Drive property, Thomas said there was a defined "hot zone" where the state had dug a hole and was removing hazardous waste, and from which at least one large item was removed yesterday. Noether said there were safety concerns, since state officials do not know what is buried. "It's not entirely clear what's going to be exposed," Noether said. "If it contains something like asbestos, it can be airborne." Noether described the area as "one huge pit of junk" that is being excavated by two Department of Environmental Services officials in protective gear. She also worried there could be something explosive, like a propane tank, buried on the property. Noether also said that the area includes a "command zone" where DES is communicating with the police, and communications could be compromised if someone else were present At the Clinton Street site, Noether said, one "hazardous area" was near the driveway, just past the police barrier, where there is a septic system and leach field. Noether said Guay would be allowed back on the property once state officials stopped digging and deemed it safe. According to a satellite picture of the property found through the Live Search Maps website, there is also a large pile of debris behind a barn on the Clinton Street property. Guay said yesterday that it was a pile of junk, which the city has inspected, and that it contained nothing hazardous. There are wetlands concerns on both properties, state officials said.