Body ID'd, cause of death unknown. The frozen body found earlier this week along the shore of Lake Opechee in Laconia has been identified as that of a Laconia man who went missing nearly three months ago. But the police still aren't sure how Bryan Harman, 28, died. The state medical examiner's office conducted an autopsy yesterday, identifying the body as Harman's. The autopsy found nothing suspicious - no wounds or signs of violence - and it could be months before toxicology reports come back, said Laconia police Capt. William Clary. "There's nothing sticking out," Clary said. He said the autopsy also did not determine how long ago Harman had died, but "we're saying at least several months." Harman was last seen on New Year's Eve. He had a fight with his girlfriend, his mother said when she called the police the next day to report him missing. The police began to investigate. Flyers were posted around Laconia. The police tracked Harman's cell phone and credit cards, but they weren't used, Clary said. Harman never picked up a paycheck from work. Months passed, and no one called to report anything, Clary said. On Wednesday, two people walking along nearby railroad tracks and searching the area for bottles spotted a body by the lake's shoreline. It was partly in the water and partly covered in ice, Clary said. The body, which was fully clothed, likely wasn't visible until recently, as snow began to melt, Clary said. The medical examiner's office took the body, and an autopsy was scheduled. Though an identification hadn't been made, Harman was the only missing person report that the Laconia police had pending, and they contacted his family to let them know a body had been found. "We wanted to make sure they knew we were doing everything we could," Clary said. During the autopsy, the medical examiner was able to identify Harman with information his family had previously provided, including "tattoos, body piercings, very good clothing description," Clary said. "We had all that stuff on hand." Harman also had his wallet, including an ID from Alaska. Clary said Harman lived in Alaska "for some period of time" and said he thought Harman's father lived there also. Harman is listed as living on Dartmouth Street in Laconia. Yesterday morning, before the autopsy had been conducted, a woman answered the phone and identified herself as Harman's ex-girlfriend. She said she was "assuming the worst." She said she hadn't heard from him since Dec. 31.