Voice of experience speaks in Maryville. It began like an ordinary Sunday worship service, but at First Baptist Church Maryville, it wasn’t an ordinary Sunday. It was the first worship service in the large sanctuary since their pastor, The Rev. Dr. Fred Winters, was killed there last Sunday. The Rev. Al Meredith, senior pastor of Wedgewood Baptist Church in Fort Worth, Texas, brought a message of hope to the congregation in Maryville in three services Sunday morning. Ten years ago, a gunman entered his church in Fort Worth and killed seven people and wounded several others. Meredith escaped harm. The differences in the church shootings, Meredith noted, were in the number killed and the fact that the one killed in Maryville was the shepherd of the flock. “If this church is going to make it, it will be by the grace of God,” Meredith repeated the message he gave in interviews this week. “Isaiah said, ‘Strike the shepherd and the sheep will scatter. ’”To prevent this happening to the Maryville church, he told members Sunday, “You’ve got to step up to the plate.” The world is searching for hope, he said. He told of the Russian submarine tragedy when several members of the crew survived at the bottom of the sea until their oxygen ran out. Divers, who heard tapping when they reached the sub, interpreted the Morse code: “Is there any hope?” All of the sailors aboard the sunken submarine perished. He said as Winston Churchill lay dying, he met for a few minutes with The Rev. Billy Graham and his question for the evangelist was, “Is there any hope?” Graham would have told him of the heavenly hope. Meredith said he left his church in Fort Worth with the blessing of his congregation to bring the message to Maryville and to the world, “In Jesus Christ there is hope.” He named several of the ones who were slain at the Fort Worth church a decade ago and told the story of Jeremiah, a young man who may have stopped the slaughter. He called the young man a “baby Christian,” who faced the gunman and said, “You need Jesus Christ in your life.” As the gunman turned on him, Jeremiah spread his arms and said, “Go ahead – shoot me. I know where I’m going – do you? Whereupon, the gunman slumped into one of the seats and turned his gun on himself. “You are what you are under pressure,” Meredith said. “What do you get when you squeeze an orange?” He nodded in agreement with the response, “Orange juice,” and added, “You don’t get Dr. Pepper.” He told the congregation that they will never get over the shooting of their pastor, but they will get through it. Meredith said a church secretary lived across from the church, but wasn’t at the scene of the shooting. Her husband, a law enforcement officer put out a call for all police available to go to the church, but by the time they arrived it was over. He later told Meredith that when he went into the church and saw the carnage and the spilled blood, he smelled the cordite from the bullets yet he could feel the presence of God. Later, as the investigation began, he went into the church and wondered if he had imagined that presence. He asked for a sign that he had felt the presence of God. The investigation turned up a hymnal that had stopped a bullet. “The bullet stopped at the page with the ‘Hallelujah Chorus,’” Meredith said. “It pointed to the words, ‘King of kings, Lord of lords – and he shall reign forever and ever,’ and he was convinced.” Meredith chose Romans 15:13 as his text Sunday. “Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost.” Meredith said the verse promises hope now that everyone can receive through believing. Meredith often breaks into song during his sermons and he asked the congregation to join him in singing, “It is Well with My Soul.” Mindful that the man who killed Dr. Winters approached the pulpit down the center aisle, Meredith didn’t hesitate to give the invitation to those wishing to accept Jesus as savior, to come down the aisle toward him and several did.