Safety stressed on St. Patrick's Day. St. Patrick's Day is a time for fun and celebration, but it can also turn tragic when drinking and driving are involved. The Madison County Health Department and Madison County Partnership for Community Health Motor Vehicle Committee are reminding those who do choose to drink to do so responsibly by designating a sober driver before the party begins. “Statistics from the National Highway Traffic Administration show that over the past five years, 851 people lost their lives in motor vehicle crashes during the St. Patrick’s Day holiday. Out of that number, 327 were killed in crashes that involved a drunk driver with a blood alcohol concentration of .08 or higher,” a statement from the department says. MCHD Health Educator Jill Heuchert said the annual event is supposed to be a time to celebrate Irish heritage and to gather with friends, but that it can quickly turn deadly when alcohol is involved. “If you plan on drinking, don’t rely on luck to keep you safe or to keep your out of trouble. Be responsible and take appropriate precautions,” Heuchert said. The department offers these tips for party goers: Avoid drinking too much alcohol too fast. Pace yourself. Alternate with non-alcoholic drinks. Designate a sober driver before the party begins. Give that person your car keys. If you are impaired, don’t even consider driving. Ask a sober friend, call a cab, or stay where you are and sleep it off. Take the impaired person’s keys and never let a friend leave your sight if you think they are about to drive while under the influence. For those hosting a party: Serve lots of food, particularly high-protein dishes, and be sure to include lots of non-alcoholic beverages. Stop serving alcohol at the end of the early in the evening and begin serving coffee and dessert. Be sure all of your guests designate their drivers in advance, or help arrange ride-sharing with sober drivers. Keep the numbers for local cab companies handy and take the keys away from anyone who is thinking of driving while impaired. Never serve alcoholic beverages to individuals under 21 years of age. Persons wanting more information on alcohol or driving issues are asked to contact the Madison County Health Department at 692-7040, ext. 6086.