Sanford rejects aid after second rebuff. COLUMBIA --- South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford said Friday he won't spend $700 million in federal stimulus cash, an announcement unlikely to affect whether the state gets the money and one that came after the Republican was twice rebuffed by the White House in his attempts to use the cash to pay off state debt. "We're obviously disappointed by the White House's decision, because it cuts against the notion of federalism and the idea of each state having the flexibility to act in a manner that best suits its needs," Mr. Sanford said. "As a result, we will not be seeking the use of these federal funds for the way they put our state even further into an unconscionable level of debt." Mr. Sanford has become a prominent voice in opposing federal bailouts. He contends that stimulus money won't increase employment and will merely add to federal debt that will lead to higher taxes. On Thursday, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin said she would reject nearly a third of an estimated $930 million that could flow to her state. Mr. Sanford, who is in Nevada for Air Force Reserve training, released a statement about an hour after White House budget chief Peter Orszag denied his request to use a portion of federal stimulus money to pay off school construction debt. Mr. Orszag sent Mr. Sanford a letter Friday saying the money can't be used on debt payments and instead needs to restore funding cuts from state budgets and help aid schools. One of the goals of the $787 billion stimulus package is "to make critical investments in long-term economic growth, such as providing every child the chance for a world-class education," Mr. Orszag wrote. In all, South Carolina is to get about $2.8 billion in federal stimulus money over two years. The state's mayors had implored Mr. Sanford to take all the money he could, and the Republican-dominated Legislature has already made plans to spend the portion the governor balked on. In January, South Carolina had the second-highest unemployment rate in the nation and officials had to cut $1 billion from a $7 billion budget as the recession dampened revenue collections. The House last week passed a $6.6 billion budget patched together with $1 billion in stimulus cash. Mr. Sanford's anti-bailout stance was one of the things that led House Majority Whip James Clyburn, D-S.C., to insert language into the bill allowing state legislators to override governors, a move that has raised constitutional concerns. Mr. Clyburn disagrees. "For one, nobody is sidestepping the governor. The governor is taking himself out of the game," Mr. Clyburn said. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Hugh Leatherman, R-Florence, said taking the money over Mr. Sanford's objections raises the likelihood of a lawsuit that would delay the state's ability to use it.