Statewide 211 could reach more poor. ATLANTA - Regional 2-1-1, a dialing code linking needy Georgia residents with everything from food pantries to social services, could begin expanding statewide by the end of the year, United Way officials said. If approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission, the expansion would stretch the service to 69 currently unserved counties. Those include several rural counties, among the hardest-hit by foreclosure and unemployment in the state. "You want folks to be able to have access to information that helps them address basic needs - and you want them to be able to access that information wherever they live in the state," said Milton J. Little Jr., president of United Way of Metropolitan Atlanta, which initiated the exchange in 1997 and is leading efforts to expand statewide. United Way officials hope to submit a proposal to the commission by the end of the year. Right now, 2-1-1 callers are connected with operators at one of 11 call centers serving metropolitan regions across the state. Callers explain their needs to operators - anything from shelter after a weather catastrophe to rental assistance - who refer them to area service agencies. Organizers say the idea is to help people navigate the complex and ever-growing network of programs. It helps the needy in the most heavily populated areas of Georgia. But United Way officials have lacked the funds to expand to farther-flung areas, Little said. For them, "resources as critical as emergency financial help to as general as where do I find a place to send my aging parents - they just don't have access," Little said. Expansion plans coincide with an increase in calls to the line. Operators fielded more than 370,000 calls in 2008, up from more than 336,000 in 2007. Little said some calls this time last year were for post-tornado help in the region. "A lot of those callers now are bringing up issues related to food, clothing and shelter," said Little, who recently estimated 41.5 percent of Atlanta-area calls are for help with day-to-day expenses. Other states have been pushing to expand the program which United Way estimates connects 234 million people with social services. There are 29 states with full coverage, according to Linda Daily, director for 2-1-1 at United Way of America. They include Texas, where state funds cover 80 percent of the program's budget, she said. But many states are grappling with heavy shortfalls, and Daily acknowledged funding 2-1-1 could be a challenge. "The budget is the main hurdle," she said, adding national United Way officials have lobbied Congress for help nationalizing the 2-1-1 program. Pending federal legislation could set aside $150 million in state 2-1-1 grant money for fiscal years 2010 and 2011, and $100 million for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2015. Versions of the bill are in committee in both the House and Senate. In Georgia, a coalition of United Way agencies led by the Atlanta agency will draft a plan that outlines how to fund the expansion, including possible use of state money. It will have to be approved by the commission and later, state lawmakers.