Scandal-plagued Ga. pastor to be buried Saturday. ATLANTA - A former mega church leader who rose to fame with his progressive evangelical ministry only to have it crumble after a series of sex scandals will be honored in the church he helped build in suburban Atlanta. Archbishop Earl Paulk of the Cathedral of the Holy Spirit at Chapel Hill Harvester Church died Sunday after a battle with cancer. He was 81. A funeral is scheduled for 1 p.m. Saturday at the Cathedral in Decatur. For years the church was at the forefront of many social movements - admitting black members in the 1960s, ordaining women and opening its doors to gays. But Paulk was dogged for decades by accusations of molestation and sexual misconduct. The most shocking revelation came in October 2007 when a court-ordered paternity test showed he was the biological father of his brother's son, D.E. Paulk, who had become head pastor of the church after the archbishop retired the previous year. Earl Paulk had sworn in an affidavit he'd never had sex with anyone but his wife, which lead to him pleading guilty to a felony charge of lying under oath. He was sentenced to 10 years' probation and a $1,000 fine. None of the Paulks could be reached for comment by The Associated Press, but D.E. Paulk issued a statement. "Over the past 55 years, Bishop Paulk has ministered to thousands in the Atlanta area and touched the lives of countless thousands in the global community," he wrote. "As the family and church mourn his death and celebrate his life, we pray for peace and closure for all who have been connected in any way to his life and ministry." Paulk's church, which he co-founded with his brother, Don, grew from a tiny congregation in the 1960s to a massive empire with 10,000 members, an international television ministry, a Bible college and a $12 million sanctuary on an expansive 100-acre plot in Decatur. Paulk was invited to a White House prayer breakfast by then-President Ronald Reagan, and the church was named one of former President George Bush's "1,000 Points of Light." The church made national headlines in 1992 when six female members came forward saying they were brainwashed into having sexual relationships with Earl Paulk and Don Paulk and other ministers at the church. A decade later, a former church member accused Earl Paulk of molesting her when she was a child and teenager, a lawsuit that eventually was settled out of court. Then former church employee Mona Brewer sued Earl Paulk and the church, saying she had been coerced into having a long-term affair with the pastor because he told her it was her godly duty. It was her lawsuit that led to the paternity test and the felony charge. At the same time, Earl Paulk was battling prostate cancer and undergoing multiple surgeries that left him weak and unable to make much more than one appearance at the church each week. The church's membership dwindled to 1,000 - mostly due to the sexual scandals - and the flashy neo-Gothic cathedral is up for sale for $24.5 million. The church is seeking to move to a smaller venue and continue its ministry, D.E. Paulk has said. Don Paulk told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he hopes his brother will be remembered for his work in ministry rather than the scandals. "Preachers are just like anyone else - they're a man," he told the newspaper.