Region 1 BOE approves proposed budget. FALLS VILLAGE—The Region 1 Board of Education moved quickly at its Monday night meeting to approve a proposed budget for the 2009-10 fiscal year reflecting a 1.99 percent increase in spending, a decision precipitated by several revisions and budgetary workshops. However, several members of the public took issue with the budget’s elimination of a custodial position and scheduling adjustment for the custodial staff. “A lot of you people just don’t realize what goes on in this building on a day-to-day basis,” said Pete Peterson. The budget removes one position from the daytime staff of two and a half positions and transfers one of the former daytime custodians to the night shift for a total of five staff members focusing on cleaning. Peterson, who fills the half position during the day, outlined his routine responsibilities, which include cleaning the locker rooms, kitchen and cafeteria, along with performing athletic field maintenance, in addition to emergencies and repairs. On Monday, when one of the hallways flooded, Mr. Peterson was forced to tend to the situation. He stressed that if the same situation were to occur with only two custodians in the building, certain responsibilities, such as lining the fields, would fall through the cracks. With spring clean close at hand and fall cleanup looming in the future, paring down the daytime staffing creates a daunting picture for Peterson. “I understand the fiscal ramifications of a budget, but I think the personnel aspect is overlooked,” said Mary Wheeler, a teacher whose husband is a custodian. Speaking on behalf of her husband, who also spoke at the meeting, she explained that her family relies on the dynamic of two parents being at home during the evening hours. Wheeler is set to move from the daytime shift to working from 3 to 11 p.m. As a teacher, Wheeler recognized the board’s duty to the taxpayers, but she emphasized the unfairness of significantly altering a 17-year employee’s schedule without consulting him. Though the board approved the budget with a majority vote, member Gale Toensing voiced her concern with the cuts and changes to the custodial staff. “I don’t buy into this doing more with less,” she said. She added that the board could not ignore what she characterized as substantial objections from the members of the community to the proposed reductions. The 1.99 percent increase brings the budget’s total to $14,149,238. Business Manager Sam Herrick continues to negotiate for a lower health care insurance renewal rate with Anthem Blue Cross, which produced the largest increase in the budget due last year’s high claim rate. The current rate is 23.63 percent higher. Board chairman Judge Manning also reported on the recent Personnel Committee’s “reluctant acceptance” of a salary freeze for Superintendent Patricia Chamberlain, per her request. During the budget process, both Herrick and high school principal Gretchen Foster also offered to forego their raises. However, Chamberlain vetoed that suggestion. With the proposed budget set, member towns’ contributions to Region 1 will be impacted in various degrees. Only Cornwall and Kent will see decreases, of $119,624 and $42,474 for a total of $1,409,257 and $2,552,999, respectively. Canaan will experience the highest jump, of $223,569, to a total of $3,440,885. Salisbury will face the second largest increase, of $138,429, for a total of $3,040,398. Sharon and Falls Village would see increases of $40,995 and $35,377, for totals of $2,718,708 and $986,989, respectively. Manning and Herrick visited residents in Sharon, Cornwall and Salisbury, members of Kent’s Board of Finance attended previous workshops and a meeting with the Canaan Board of Finance is scheduled for this week, thus ensuring that the Region 1 Board reviews the 1.99 percent increase directly with the member towns. Manning reported the budget has been positively received. Peterson, however, retained his doubts after the vote. “They’re cutting us way, way short,” he said. Before it takes effect, the proposed budget must be approved in a district-wide budget meeting. It is scheduled for March 31 at 7 p.m.