18 residents left homless after blaze. TORRINGTON — A fire destroyed the roof of a Main Street multi-family home Tuesday, displacing the tenants and injuring some firefighters. No residents were injured. The Torrington Fire Department responded to the call of a kitchen fire around 12:30 p.m. at 775 Main St., near the intersection of Dawes Street. What initially appeared under control progressively worsened, beginning with some smoke and resulting in flames and full-brown clouds emerging from the house, officials said. A total of 18 people live in the six-apartment building, and all evacuated safely, building owner Buzz Ebner said. Firefighters battled the incident throughout the entire afternoon and were on the scene as late as 10:30 p.m. Fire Marshal Tim Tharau said the department continued to put water on the structure after 8 p.m.A rehab station was set up outside of the house for firefighters to recuperate and check their blood pressure, said Litchfield Fire Chief Jim Koser. A few firefighters sustained minor injuries, but nothing too major occurred, Tharau said. An investigation determined that the incident began in the second-floor area of the building and was caused by a kitchen stove fire, Tharau said. The fire was accidental, he said. The building separates a north and south wing through a thick concrete wall in the middle, Ebner said. Emergency access staircases are both in the back and the front, he said. The initial blaze could be seen from the sides and the rear of the house, on both the second- and third-floor levels. A cloud of brown smoke emerged in full droves and encapsulated the entire north end of the city for hours. By 6 p.m., the entire roof of the home collapsed and water was flowing down the sides of the house. Torrington firefighters called in several other companies to assist including Harwinton, Bantam, Litchfield, Winsted and all Torrington volunteer departments. Several fire engines came and went during the incident and emergency medical services, city police and hazardous material trucks were also on the scene. Residents walked down from as far as the local McDonald’s to witness the commotion. During several points throughout the day spectators stopped to take pictures and watch as firefighters descended into a blaze of smoke on top of the roof. Some even watched from across the Naugatuck River in the Shop Rite parking lot. Jay Keefe, who lives down the street, said he heard the sirens of the trucks come by. When he looked out his window, he saw the smoke emerge from the three-story home. Due to the increasing smoke and the need to bring in more assistance, police and firefighters continuously pushed back the large mass of spectators, placing yellow caution tape along the side roads. At points traffic was detoured from as far down as Lois Street and nearby pedestrians were prohibited from getting too close to the action. Following the devastation, Red Cross in Waterbury provided shelter for the residents of the house, Ebner said. The building was equipped with fire insurance and some of the residents had fire insurance as part of their rent package, he said. Evan Heller, assistant fire weather program leader for the Albany-based National Weather Service, said the weather conditions on Tuesday had fire hazard potential — particularly the dry air and low humidity. “Wind is a factor,” Heller said. “The stronger the wind the higher the potential.” The early spring is considered “fire weather season,” he said, after the snow melts but before the leaves begin to grow again. “This is the time that things can dry out,” Heller said. “Usually once you leaf out, by early summer, usually that risk tends to go down.” Several other fires occurred throughout the state Tuesday, including a brush fire on Center Street in Torrington, fires in Weston and a forest fire in Glastonbury. Torrington firefighters continued to work at 775 Main St., checking for and extinguishing hot spots, Torrington firefighter Edward DeLisle said Tuesday around 10 p.m. A section of Main Street still remained closed at that hour, he said.