Loud music complaint leads to threatening, property damage. CROMWELL — Police thought the issue had been resolved when they responded to a loud music complaint Sunday morning. Instead, they say, that was just the beginning of an unfolding incident at an apartment house on Nordland Avenue. Shortly after 7 a.m., police received a complaint from a tenant about loud music, which “was disrupting his peace,” coming from another apartment, Capt. Roy A. Nelson said. An officer responded and “he could hear the music from a couple of houses away,” Nelson said. However, when the officer went to the apartment from where the music was coming, Nelson said the tenant, Brian O’Connor, 38, of 20E Nordland Ave., “was cooperative and agreed to turn down the music.” With that, the officer left, the captain said. But at 8:12 a.m., police were summoned back to the same address by a frantic call from a frightened tenant of the building. The woman told police that O’Connor had threatened her and had damaged her property — and that he had come into her apartment without being invited in. When police, including Sgt. Edwin Kosinski, arrived at the address in response to the call, they were told O’Connor had allegedly gone to another tenant’s apartment first. He banged on the door and allegedly accused the first tenant of having called police, Nelson said. However, that tenant was apparently able to convince O’Connor he had not called the police. So, police said, O’Connor moved on to another apartment. There, he allegedly damaged the woman’s wind chime and then “made entry into her apartment.” Once inside, he allegedly called out, threatening the woman, police said. Frightened, “the woman hid until Mr. O’Connor left and then called police,” Nelson said. As police proceeded with their investigation, Sgt. Kosinski stopped a tenant and asked him if he was Brian O’Connor. The man replied he was not, at which point he began advancing on Kosinski, Nelson said. However, Officer Joe DiMaruo, who knew O’Connor, alerted Kosinski that the man he had questioned and who approached him was in fact O’Connor. Kosinski ordered the man to back away, and when he would not, Nelson said Kosinski subdued him with minimal force. O’Connor was placed under arrest; he was charged with breach of peace, threatening, attempt to commit third-degree burglary and interfering with a police officer. He was ordered held on $10,000 bond for a pending appearance in Middlesex Superior Court.