Deserving youngsters and causes honoured. OUTSTANDING young citizens have been honoured for their dedication to helping others. Thirteen kind-hearted youngsters received awards from the High Sheriff of Cambridgeshire, Judy Pearson, for their exceptional contributions to communities across the county. Among those honoured include 17-year-olds Luke Slater and Daniel Stephen, who run a Saturday youth club for teenagers in Newmarket Road, Cambridge, called Parent Free Zone, and eight Newmarket Ranger guides who run activities for girls with special needs. Rebecca Rayner also picked up the High Sheriff Award for her tireless fundraising efforts and her work to mentor young cadets in the Huntingdon Sea Cadets. There were also awards for a leading member of the Fenzone youth council, Charlie Manders, and Robert McColl, who runs a bike repair training service in Peterborough. Mrs Pearson praised the actions of the civic-minded youngsters. "These young people are shining lights in their communities," she said. "Their selfless dedication to other people is most impressive. They have committed a huge amount of time to other people and I commend them for it." The awards were presented at St Ivo School, in St Ives, on Thursday, and were attended by the chief constable of Cambridgeshire police Julie Spence. The evening also saw the High Sheriff hand out more than £8,700 to a variety of youth projects, including a project run by Romsey Mill, in Mill Road, Cambridge, to involve young people in volunteering at Anglesey Abbey. There was also a cash grant for East Cambridgeshire Girl Guides to follow the lead of their Newmarket colleagues to provide guiding opportunities for girls with special needs. The St Ives Youth Theatre, which performed at the awards evening, also picked up a grant to help it stage a musical called Tom Sawyer. There were also awards for various youth, Guide and Scouting groups across the county. "It is a great pleasure to be able to distribute the money raised this year to so many resourceful young people who are making a difference to the lives of other young and not-so-young people in Cambridgeshire," Mrs Pearson added. Other grant recipients include Romsey Mill's Aspire, the Huntingdon and District Sea Cadets, Cottenham Village College, West Cambridge Christian Youth Ministries, Parent Free Zone, the Connections Bus Project, 1st Caxton Brownies and Rainbows, Comberton Ten Sing, Ely Army Cadet Force, Orwell Youth Club and Waterbeach Action for Youth.