Ohio recession: Pay cuts, fewer police. MOUNT GILEAD (AP) -- A city court won't accept new cases because it's out of paper and has no money to reorder. Elsewhere, more firefighters are accepting wage decreases to save their jobs, and administrators at another state university are freezing their pay. Public entities around Ohio are hoping gestures like these will protect them from bigger problems caused by the recession. The gestures come when there's no relief in sight for battered Ohio, whose unemployment rate has hit 8.8 percent, a two-decade high. Tax revenue is flat at best or plunging at worst as layoffs continue and residents sew up their wallets and pocketbooks. In Mount Gilead, Judge Lee McClelland, of Morrow County Municipal Court in north-central Ohio, says the court has just enough paper to handle hearing notices and other documents for pending cases. He says several county agencies have volunteered to bring their own paper in to handle their filings. The court also is switching to a four-day work week to save money. In Euclid, in the northeast, firefighters agreed to a 2-percent pay cut and less money for continuing education and retirement funds for new firefighters in exchange for no layoffs. The city already has laid off 17 jail employees and is hoping to avoid police department layoffs. In Youngstown, Mayor Jay Williams wants city employees to work four fewer hours a week, equivalent to a 10 percent pay cut, to avoid layoffs. He's also taking a 10 percent cut, or about $10,500 in wages and benefits. Youngstown State University President David Sweet, who makes about $230,000 a year, said Friday he and eight top university officials will give up their 3 percent pay raises to create a new student financial aid fund. Earlier this month, Ohio State University said it would freeze the pay of President Gordon Gee and 18 members of his management team and put the money toward student scholarships. Top administrators at Wright State University will give up raises this year and contribute to an emergency relief fund for students. In Mansfield, Richland County Sheriff Steve Sheldon is scheduled to lay off 11 employees, though grant money saved an extra three jobs that were to be cut. The police union is proposing alternatives to layoffs, including eliminating part-time or seasonal jobs first. In Columbus, city firefighters agreed to a pay freeze to avoid layoffs. Police declined the offer and were about to lose 25 newly hired recruits when Mayor Michael Coleman announced $1.25 million in federal stimulus money would save their jobs for now. But small gestures won't work in every cash-strapped city. Toledo Mayor Carty Finkbeiner says he plans in May to lay off 75 police officers, about 12 percent of the division, if the city doesn't receive $35 million in federal stimulus funds.